---
doc_type: sec_filing
source: sec_edgar
ticker: WELL
accession_number: 0000766704-22-000059
form_type: 8-K
items:
- '2.02'
- '8.01'
- '9.01'
filed_date: '2022-11-07'
filing_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670422000059/well-20221107.htm
press_release_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670422000059/a3q22earningsrelease991.htm
tickers:
- WELL
themes:
- demographic_demand_tailwinds
ingestion_date: '2026-07-19'
extraction_source: v3 SEC filings pipeline (sec_filings.py); EDGAR; claude-extracted
  themes
---

# WELL 8-K — filed 2022-11-07

## 8-K body

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 7, 2022
Welltower Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 1-8923 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction
of Incorporation) (Commission
File Number) (IRS Employer
Identification No.)
4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: ( 419 ) 247-2800
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock, $1.00 par value per share WELL New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.800% Notes due 2028 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/28 New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.500% Notes due 2034 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/34 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Page 1 of 3
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 7, 2022 , Welltower Inc. (the “Company”) issued a press release that announced operating results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2022. The press release refers to a supplemental information package that is available on the Company's website (www.welltower.com), free of charge. Copies of the press release and supplemental information package have been furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report, and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 7, 2022, the board of directors of the Company approved a stock repurchase program (the “Stock Repurchase Program”) for up to $3 billion of outstanding shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company (the “Shares”), following the expiration of the Company's previous stock repurchase program. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market transactions (on a case by case basis or on a non-discretionary basis pursuant to a plan or in any other manner designed to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act), in privately-negotiated purchases, through block trades, by effecting a tender offer, by way of an accelerated share repurchase program, through the purchase of call options or the sale of put options, or otherwise, or by any combination of the foregoing.
The Stock Repurchase Program has no expiration date and does not obligate the Company to repurchase any specific number of Shares. The Company will evaluate any opportunities to repurchase Shares in the context of the Company’s future liquidity profile, share price, prevailing market conditions and regulatory considerations, as well as the potential marginal benefit of new investments and/or debt reduction. The Company may, in its discretion, begin, suspend or terminate repurchases at any time, without any prior notice.
On November 7, 2022, the board of directors of the Company also authorized the Company to issue through its at-the-market equity program (the "ATM Program") up to $3 billion of shares of its common stock (including amounts unsold under the current ATM program). The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the ATM Program, if any, for future property acquisitions, development and redevelopment opportunities, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains “forward-looking” statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When the Company uses words such as “may,” “will” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, the Company is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding possible repurchases under the Stock Repurchase Program are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from its expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in the Company’s reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press release of Welltower Inc. dated November 7, 2022
99.2 Welltower Inc. Supplemental Information Package for the quarter ended September 30, 2022.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Page 2 of 3
WELLTOWER INC.
By: /s/ Matthew McQueen
Name: Matthew McQueen
Title: Executive Vice President – General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
Dated: November 7, 2022
Page 3 of 3

## Exhibit EX-99.1

EX-99.1
2
a3q22earningsrelease991.htm
EX-99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 7, 2022
For more information contact:
Tim McHugh (419) 247-2800
Welltower Reports Third Quarter 2022 Results
Toledo, Ohio, November 7, 2022….. Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL ) today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2022.
Recent Highlights
• Reported net loss attributable to common stockholders of $0.01 per diluted share
• Reported normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders of $0.84 per diluted share
• Reported normalized FFO growth attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of 5.0% over the prior year, and 6.2% on a constant currency basis excluding Provider Relief Funds
• Reported total portfolio year-over-year same store NOI ("SSNOI") growth of 7.2%, driven by SSNOI growth in our Seniors Housing Operating ("SHO") portfolio of 17.6%
• SHO portfolio year-over-year same store revenue increased 10.8% in the third quarter, driven by 390 basis points of year-over-year average occupancy growth and REVPOR growth of 5.3%. Same store REVPOR growth in the third quarter reached the highest level in our recorded history and is expected to accelerate further in the fourth quarter
• Completed $1.1 billion of pro rata gross investments during the third quarter including $850 million in acquisitions and loan funding and $203 million in development funding. Transactions during the period were funded, in part, through the issuance of Operating Partnership Units ("OP Units")
• Reduced variable rate debt by $817 million subsequent to quarter end; line of credit is fully available with $4.0 billion of capacity as of November 7, 2022
• MSCI ESG rating upgraded to 'AAA' from 'AA' and received the GRESB Green Star designation due to strong governance practices and continued stakeholder engagement to reduce our environmental impact
COVID-19 Update
During the period, we recognized $2 million of Provider Relief Funds, as compared to guidance of approximately $7 million. As a result, third quarter 2022 net income attributable to common stockholders and normalized FFO was reduced by approximately $0.01 per diluted share relative to guidance.
Our share of property-level expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic relating to our SHO portfolio totaled $7 million. Net of reimbursements including Provider Relief Funds and similar programs in the U.K. and Canada, our share of property-level expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic relating to our SHO portfolio totaled a benefit of approximately $0.3 million and $6.5 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, as compared to a benefit of approximately $0.4 million and $24 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2021, respectively. Such amounts had a favorable impact on net income attributable to common stockholders and normalized FFO per diluted share of less than $0.01 and $0.01 for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, and a favorable impact of less than $0.01 and $0.05 per diluted share for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2021, respectively.
Capital Activity and Liquidity Inclusive of available borrowings under our line of credit, cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash, as of September 30, 2022, we had $3.8 billion of near-term available liquidity and no material senior unsecured note maturities until 2024. During the three months ended September 30, 2022, we settled 9.1 million shares of common stock that were sold under our ATM program via forward sale agreements, resulting in $842 million of gross proceeds.
Subsequent to quarter end, we reduced variable rate debt by $817 million, inclusive of borrowings under the line of credit as well as secured debt assumed and subsequently paid off post-quarter end.
In addition, following the expiration of the our previous share repurchase program, the Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program whereby we may repurchase up to $3 billion of common stock. Under this authorization, we are not required to purchase shares, but may choose to do so in the open market or through private transactions at times and amounts based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors.
Page 1 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
Investment and Disposition Activity In the third quarter, we completed $1.1 billion of pro rata gross investments including $850 million in acquisitions and loan funding, as well as $203 million in development funding. Transactions during this period were funded, in part, through the issuance of OP Units. We opened four development projects for an aggregate pro rata investment amount of $79 million. Additionally, during the quarter we completed pro rata property dispositions and loan payoffs of $8 million.
Notable Investment Activity Completed During the Quarter
Oakmont Management Group In July, we continued to expand our relationship with Oakmont through the acquisition of three newly-constructed rental communities and three stable entrance fee communities in high barrier-to-entry California markets for an aggregate purchase price of $312 million. The portfolio will be managed by Oakmont under a RIDEA 3.0 management contract.
StoryPoint Senior Living As previously announced, we entered into an agreement to expand our relationship with StoryPoint Senior Living, a preeminent senior living operator based in Brighton, Michigan, through the acquisition of 33 communities throughout Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee under an aligned RIDEA 3.0 contract. During July, we closed on the second and third tranches through the acquisition of 23 communities located in Ohio and Michigan for a purchase price of $292 million. During October, we closed on an additional tranche of five properties in Ohio for a purchase price of $113 million. To date, we have acquired 30 properties with StoryPoint during 2022 for a pro rata purchase price of $470 million.
Kisco Senior Living During the third quarter, we expanded our relationship with Kisco through the acquisition of a 187-unit seniors housing property in the San Francisco MSA for a pro rata purchase price of $114 million.
Outpatient Medical Acquisitions During the quarter, we acquired a medical office building in La Jolla, California for $57 million. The property has approximately 99,000 rentable square feet and is currently 89% leased. Additionally, we acquired a medical office building in Towson, Maryland for $15 million. The property has approximately 54,000 rentable square feet and is fully leased.
Other Transactions Additionally, during the third quarter, we disposed of one long-term post acute property for proceeds of $3 million.
D ividend On November 7, 2022, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended September 30, 2022 of $0.61 per share. This dividend, which will be paid on November 30, 2022 to stockholders of record as of November 18, 2022, will be our 206th consecutive quarterly cash dividend. The declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends remains subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors.
Outlook for Fourth Quarter 2022 The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our operations and those of our operators and tenants, including the variability in the timing of recovery, is dependent on a variety of factors and remains highly uncertain. Accordingly, we are only introducing earnings guidance for the quarter ended December 31, 2022 and expect to report net income attributable to common stockholders in a range of $0.08 to $0.13 per diluted share and normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders in a range of $0.80 to $0.85 per diluted share. In preparing our guidance, we have made the following assumptions:
• Same Store NOI: We expect average blended SSNOI growth of 8.5% to 10.5%, which is comprised of the following components:
◦ Seniors Housing Operating approximately 18.5% to 23.5%
◦ Seniors Housing Triple-net approximately 5% to 6%
◦ Outpatient Medical approximately 1.5% to 2.5%
◦ Health System approximately 2.75%
◦ Long-Term/Post-Acute Care approximately 2.5% to 3.5%
• Provider Relief Funds: Our fourth quarter guidance does not include the recognition of any Provider Relief Funds which may be received during the quarter.
• Impact of Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Rates: Increased interest rates on floating rate debt and a strengthening U.S. Dollar relative to the British Pound and Canadian Dollar are expected to reduce fourth quarter 2022 normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders by approximately $0.03 per diluted share versus the third quarter 2022 and $0.06 per diluted share versus the fourth quarter 2021.
• General and Administrative Expenses: We anticipate fourth quarter general and administrative expenses to be approximately $34 million to $36 million and stock-based compensation expense to be approximately $6 million.
• Investments: Our earnings guidance includes only those acquisitions closed or announced to date. Furthermore, no transitions or restructures beyond those announced to date are included.
• Development: We anticipate funding approximately $263 million of development through the remainder of 2022 relating to projects underway on September 30, 2022.
• Dispositions: We expect pro rata disposition proceeds of $580 million at a blended yield of 4.6% in the next twelve months. This includes approximately $466 million of expected proceeds from property sales and $114 million of expected proceeds from loan repayments.
Page 2 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
Our guidance does not include any additional investments, dispositions or capital transactions beyond those we have announced, nor any other expenses, impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional normalizing items. Please see the Supplemental Reporting Measures section for further discussion and our definition of normalized FFO and SSNOI and Exhibit 3 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders. We will provide additional detail regarding our fourth quarter outlook and assumptions on the third quarter 2022 conference call.
Conference Call Information We have scheduled a conference call on Tuesday, November 8, 2022 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss our third quarter 2022 results, industry trends and portfolio performance. Telephone access will be available by dialing (888) 340-5024 or (646) 960-0135 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through November 15, 2022. To access the rebroadcast, dial (800) 770-2030 or (647) 362-9199 (international). The conference ID number is 8230248. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.welltower.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days.
Supplemental Reporting Measures We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders ("NICS"), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider funds from operations ("FFO"), normalized FFO, NOI, SSNOI, REVPOR and SS REVPOR to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. These supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO attributable to common stockholders, as defined by NAREIT, means net income attributable to common stockholders, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairments of depreciable assets, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests. Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders represents FFO attributable to common stockholders adjusted for certain items detailed in Exhibit 2. We believe that normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance because investors and equity analysts may use this measure to compare the operating performance of the Company between periods or as compared to other REITs or other companies on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated and/or incalculable items. In addition, we believe that presentation of constant currency normalized FFO exclusive of Provider Relief Funds provides enhanced comparability for investor evaluations of period-over-period results.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations or transaction costs. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions
Page 3 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties. No reconciliation of the forecasted range for SSNOI on a combined basis or by property type is included in this release because we are unable to quantify certain amounts that would be required to be included in the comparable GAAP financial measure without unreasonable efforts, and we believe such reconciliation would imply a degree of precision that could be confusing or misleading to investors.
REVPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. It is calculated as our pro rata version of total resident fees and services revenues from the income statement divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS REVPOR is used to evaluate the REVPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. It is based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and includes any revenue normalizations used for SSNOI. We use REVPOR and SS REVPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and ratings agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, they are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. The supplemental reporting measures do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the exhibits for reconciliations of supplemental reporting measures and the supplemental information package for the quarter ended September 30, 2022, which is available on the Company’s website (www.welltower.com), for information and reconciliations of additional supplemental reporting measures.
About Welltower Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The Company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available at www.welltower.com. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors”. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this press release, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This press release contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words s uch as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “pro forma,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements, including statements related to Funds From Operations guidance, are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower’s actual results to differ materially from Welltower’s expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower’s ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters and other acts of God affecting Welltower’s properties; Welltower’s ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower’s ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower’s properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower’s financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates; Welltower’s ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower’s reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 4 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
Welltower Inc.
Financial Exhibits
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(in thousands)
September 30,
2022 2021
Assets
Real estate investments:
Land and land improvements $ 4,156,985 $ 3,698,858
Buildings and improvements 33,018,251 29,775,951
Acquired lease intangibles 1,920,803 1,653,415
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 175,657 251,152
Construction in progress 1,012,202 562,487
Less accumulated depreciation and intangible amortization (7,687,077) (6,634,061)
Net real property owned 32,596,821 29,307,802
Right of use assets, net 323,230 526,614
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 916,639 1,115,645
Net real estate investments 33,836,690 30,950,061
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 1,383,246 977,955
Goodwill 68,321 68,321
Cash and cash equivalents 343,446 303,982
Restricted cash 81,738 58,663
Straight-line rent receivable 430,173 346,159
Receivables and other assets 1,270,874 774,884
Total other assets 3,577,798 2,529,964
Total assets $ 37,414,488 $ 33,480,025
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ 654,715 $ 290,996
Senior unsecured notes 12,324,601 11,116,067
Secured debt 2,121,628 2,262,345
Lease liabilities 410,415 544,547
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 1,445,479 1,093,959
Total liabilities 16,956,838 15,307,914
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 400,965 389,195
Equity:
Common stock 473,930 436,640
Capital in excess of par value 25,289,432 22,148,859
Treasury stock (111,772) (108,478)
Cumulative net income 8,808,678 8,605,064
Cumulative dividends (15,215,694) (14,115,705)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (75,267) (103,177)
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’ equity 19,169,307 16,863,203
Noncontrolling interests 887,378 919,713
Total equity 20,056,685 17,782,916
Total liabilities and equity $ 37,414,488 $ 33,480,025
Page 5 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended
September 30, September 30,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 1,068,706 $ 835,617 $ 3,073,040 $ 2,299,972
Rental income 361,983 357,984 1,079,784 1,015,550
Interest income 37,791 39,864 113,925 97,891
Other income 5,364 6,332 75,335 19,438
Total revenues 1,473,844 1,239,797 4,342,084 3,432,851
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 912,180 729,400 2,619,932 1,989,383
Depreciation and amortization 353,699 267,754 968,082 753,065
Interest expense 139,682 122,522 389,128 368,005
General and administrative expenses 34,811 32,256 109,071 93,618
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 6,905 (8,078) 8,076 (6,503)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 2 (5) 593 50,964
Provision for loan losses, net 490 (271) (149) 7,309
Impairment of assets 4,356 1,490 4,356 48,750
Other expenses 15,481 3,575 76,716 26,256
Total expenses 1,467,606 1,148,643 4,175,805 3,330,847
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
and other items 6,238 91,154 166,279 102,004
Income tax (expense) benefit (3,257) (4,940) (11,335) (6,662)
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (6,698) (15,832) (16,640) (10,759)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 1,064 119,954 20,466 223,702
Income (loss) from continuing operations (2,653) 190,336 158,770 308,285
Net income (loss) (2,653) 190,336 158,770 308,285
Less:
Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1)
4,114 10,673 13,828 30,819
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ (6,767) $ 179,663 $ 144,942 $ 277,466
Average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 463,366 428,031 455,074 420,955
Diluted 463,366 429,983 457,999 422,835
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:
Basic $ (0.01) $ 0.42 $ 0.32 $ 0.66
Diluted (2)
$ (0.01) $ 0.42 $ 0.32 $ 0.65
Common dividends per share $ 0.61 $ 0.61 $ 1.83 $ 1.83
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
(2) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
Page 6 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
FFO Reconciliations Exhibit 1
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended
September 30, September 30,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ (6,767) $ 179,663 $ 144,942 $ 277,466
Depreciation and amortization 353,699 267,754 968,082 753,065
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions, net 3,292 (118,464) (16,110) (174,952)
Noncontrolling interests (1)
(14,614) (11,095) (42,540) (40,202)
Unconsolidated entities (2)
27,253 27,881 65,712 66,369
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders 362,863 345,739 1,120,086 881,746
Normalizing items, net (3)
28,279 (3,472) 33,938 124,680
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 391,142 $ 342,267 $ 1,154,024 $ 1,006,426
Provider Relief Funds received — — (17,748) (40,975)
Provider Relief Funds attributable to noncontrolling interests and unconsolidated entities, net (2,402) — (2,342) 185
Foreign currency impact (4)
6,237 1,175 10,208 (60)
Constant currency normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders, excluding Provider Relief Funds $ 394,977 $ 343,442 $ 1,144,142 $ 965,576
Average diluted common shares outstanding
For net income (loss) purposes 463,366 429,983 457,999 422,835
For FFO purposes 466,950 429,983 457,999 422,835
Per diluted share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income (loss) (5)
$ (0.01) $ 0.42 $ 0.32 $ 0.65
NAREIT FFO $ 0.78 $ 0.80 $ 2.45 $ 2.09
Normalized FFO $ 0.84 $ 0.80 $ 2.52 $ 2.38
% growth 5.0 %
Constant currency normalized FFO, excluding Provider Relief Funds $ 0.85 $ 0.80 $ 2.50 $ 2.28
% growth 6.2 %
Normalized FFO Payout Ratio:
Dividends per common share $ 0.61 $ 0.61 $ 1.83 $ 1.83
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders per share $ 0.84 $ 0.80 $ 2.52 $ 2.38
Normalized FFO payout ratio 73 % 76 % 73 % 77 %
Other items: (6)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization (7)
$ (33,816) $ (19,809) $ (79,957) $ (58,672)
Non-cash interest expenses (8)
5,365 6,223 15,638 14,572
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements, and lease commissions (44,987) (22,722) (117,011) (54,581)
Stock-based compensation (9)
6,115 4,479 19,456 13,989
(1) Represents noncontrolling interests' share of net FFO adjustments.
(2) Represents Welltower's share of net FFO adjustments from unconsolidated entities.
(3) See Exhibit 2.
(4) Foreign currency impact is calculated assuming constant exchange rates for all periods presented of 1.2592 for USD/CAD and of 1.3785 for GBP/USD.
(5) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
(6) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and including Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(7) Excludes normalized other impairment (see Exhibit 2).
(8) Excludes normalized foreign currency loss (gain) (see Exhibit 2).
(9) Excludes certain severance related stock-based compensation recorded in other expense (see Exhibit 2).
Page 7 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
Normalizing Items Exhibit 2
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended
September 30, September 30,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net $ 6,905 (1) $ (8,078) $ 8,076 $ (6,503)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 2 (2) (5) 593 50,964
Provision for loan losses, net 490 (3) (271) (149) 7,309
Nonrecurring income tax benefits — — — (6,298)
Other impairment — — (620) 49,241
Other expenses 15,481 (4) 3,575 76,716 26,256
Lease termination and leasehold interest adjustment — (640) (64,854) (640)
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 328 (5) 998 3,001 998
Foreign currency loss (gain) 2,037 (6) — 3,877 —
Normalizing items attributable to noncontrolling interests and unconsolidated entities, net 3,036 (7) 949 7,298 3,353
Net normalizing items $ 28,279 $ (3,472) $ 33,938 $ 124,680
Average diluted common shares outstanding 466,950 429,983 457,999 422,835
Net normalizing items per diluted share $ 0.06 $ (0.01) $ 0.07 $ 0.29
(1) Primarily related to mark-to-market of the equity warrants received as part of the Safanad/HC-One transaction that closed in 2021.
(2) Primarily related to the extinguishment of secured debt.
(3) Primarily related to reserves for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard.
(4) Primarily related to non-capitalizable transaction costs, including an accrual for non-capitalizable promotes.
(5) Primarily relates to casualty losses net of any insurance recoveries.
(6) Primarily relates to foreign currency gains and losses related to accrued interest on intercompany loans and third party debt denominated in a foreign currency.
(7) Primarily related to our share of non-capitalizable transaction costs on unconsolidated entities.
Outlook Reconciliation: Quarter Ending December 31, 2022 Exhibit 3
(in millions, except per share data) Current Outlook
Low High
FFO Reconciliation:
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 41 $ 65
Depreciation and amortization (1)
347 347
NAREIT FFO and Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 388 $ 412
Diluted per share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income $ 0.08 $ 0.13
NAREIT FFO and Normalized FFO $ 0.80 $ 0.85
Other items: (1)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (29) $ (29)
Non-cash interest expenses 6 6
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements, and lease commissions (52) (52)
Stock-based compensation 6 6
(1) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
Page 8 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
SSNOI Reconciliation Exhibit 4
(in thousands) Three Months Ended
September 30,
2022 2021 % growth
Net income (loss) $ (2,653) $ 190,336
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (1,064) (119,954)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 6,698 15,832
Income tax expense (benefit) 3,257 4,940
Other expenses 15,481 3,575
Impairment of assets 4,356 1,490
Provision for loan losses, net 490 (271)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 2 (5)
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 6,905 (8,078)
General and administrative expenses 34,811 32,256
Depreciation and amortization 353,699 267,754
Interest expense 139,682 122,522
Consolidated NOI 561,664 510,397
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
27,374 20,042
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(27,236) (31,061)
Pro rata NOI 561,802 499,378
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties
(21,173) (15,413)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties
(135,000) (102,264)
Currency and ownership adjustments (3)
4,148 2,771
Normalizing adjustments, net (4)
(2,961) (4,967)
Same Store NOI (SSNOI) $ 406,816 $ 379,505 7.2%
Seniors Housing Operating 152,204 129,480 17.6%
Seniors Housing Triple-net 82,561 81,283 1.6%
Outpatient Medical 105,460 104,020 1.4%
Health System 43,849 42,674 2.8%
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 22,742 22,048 3.1%
Total SSNOI
$ 406,816 $ 379,505 7.2%
Notes: (1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove NOI related to certain leasehold properties.
(3) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages and foreign currency exchange rates for properties in the U.K. and Canada.
(4) Includes other adjustments described in the accompanying Supplement.
Page 9 of 10
3Q22 Earnings Release November 7, 2022
Reconciliation of SHO SS REVPOR Growth Exhibit 5
(in thousands except SS REVPOR) Three Months Ended
September 30,
2022 2021
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 1,072,600 $ 839,519
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
53,953 45,770
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(64,800) (73,193)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
1,061,753 812,096
Non-cash revenues on same store properties (556) (556)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (359,059) (172,264)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
5,707 (191)
SHO SS revenues (5)
$ 707,845 $ 639,085
SHO SS revenue YOY growth 10.8 %
Average occupied units/month (6)
42,260 40,187
SHO SS REVPOR (7)
$ 5,538 $ 5,258
SS REVPOR YOY growth 5.3 %
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove revenues related to certain leasehold properties.
(3) Represents SHO revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.2738 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.3501.
(5) Represents SS SHO revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
Page 10 of 10

## Exhibit EX-99.2

EX-99.2
3
a3q22supplement992.htm
EX-99.2
Table of Contents
Overview
1
Portfolio
2
Investment
6
Financial
12
Glossary
17
Supplemental Reporting Measures
18
Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors
22
Overview
(dollars and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Portfolio Composition (1)
Beds/Unit Mix
Average Age Properties Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care
Seniors Housing Operating 18 939 110,280 15,503 44,377 35,158 14,364 878
Seniors Housing Triple-net 16 311 25,825 — 5,333 14,126 6,097 269
Outpatient Medical 17 401 23,656,228 (2) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Health System 31 205 24,485 — 201 517 3,145 20,622
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 19 92 10,548 — — 693 10 9,845
Total 19 1,948
NOI Performance
Same Store (3)
In-Place Portfolio (4)
Properties 3Q21 NOI 3Q22 NOI % Change Properties Annualized
In-Place NOI % of Total
Seniors Housing Operating 554 $ 129,480 $ 152,204 17.6 % 869 $ 874,208 44.9 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net (5)
285 81,283 82,561 1.6 % 302 350,144 18.0 %
Outpatient Medical 354 104,020 105,460 1.4 % 386 456,908 23.5 %
Health System 201 42,674 43,849 2.8 % 201 175,392 9.0 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care (5)
76 22,048 22,742 3.1 % 82 90,116 4.6 %
Total 1,470 $ 379,505 $ 406,816 7.2 % 1,840 $ 1,946,768 100.0 %
Portfolio Performance Facility Revenue Mix
Stable Portfolio (6)
Occupancy
EBITDAR Coverage (7)
EBITDARM Coverage (7)
Private Pay Medicaid Medicare
Other Government (8)
Seniors Housing Operating 79.2 % n/a n/a 97.0 % 1.3 % 0.8 % 0.9 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 78.8 % 0.83 1.01 89.4 % 3.9 % 0.9 % 5.8 %
Outpatient Medical 94.5 % n/a n/a 100.0 % — — —
Health System 73.3 % -0.60 -0.01 38.8 % 42.7 % 18.5 % — %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 80.0 % 1.31 1.58 28.5 % 33.5 % 38.0 % — %
Total 0.45 0.77 94.4 % 3.1 % 1.3 % 1.2 %
Notes:
(1) Includes land parcels and properties under development.
(2) Indicates the total square footage of Outpatient Medical properties.
(3) See pages 19 and 20 for reconciliation.
(4) Excludes land parcels, loans, developments and investments held for sale. See page 19 for reconciliation.
(5) Same store NOI for these property types represents cash rent excluding the impact of expansions.
(6) Data as of September 30, 2022 for Seniors Housing Operating and Outpatient Medical and June 30, 2022 for remaining asset types.
(7) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics.
(8) Represents various federal and local reimbursement programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
1
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
In-Place NOI Diversification (1)
By Partner: Total Properties Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient
Medical Health
System Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care Total % of Total
ProMedica 201 $ — $ — $ — $ 175,392 $ — $ 175,392 9.0 %
Sunrise Senior Living 125 142,852 — — — — 142,852 7.3 %
Atria Senior Living 93 81,516 — — — — 81,516 4.2 %
Cogir Management Corporation 50 77,936 — — — — 77,936 4.0 %
Avery Healthcare 55 6,640 62,044 — — — 68,684 3.5 %
Belmont Village 21 68,244 — — — — 68,244 3.5 %
Oakmont Management Group 32 63,536 — — — — 63,536 3.3 %
Brookdale Senior Living 85 (1,388) 64,088 — — — 62,700 3.2 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 67 15,792 40,604 — — — 56,396 2.9 %
Revera 78 49,920 — — — — 49,920 2.6 %
Remaining 1,033 369,160 183,408 456,908 — 90,116 1,099,592 56.5 %
Total 1,840 $ 874,208 $ 350,144 $ 456,908 $ 175,392 $ 90,116 $ 1,946,768 100.0 %
By Country:
United States 1,568 $ 683,740 $ 280,096 $ 456,908 $ 175,392 $ 83,064 $ 1,679,200 86.3 %
Canada 154 126,056 3,592 — — 7,052 136,700 7.0 %
United Kingdom 118 64,412 66,456 — — — 130,868 6.7 %
Total 1,840 $ 874,208 $ 350,144 $ 456,908 $ 175,392 $ 90,116 $ 1,946,768 100.0 %
By MSA:
Los Angeles 72 $ 66,152 $ 19,808 $ 32,648 $ — $ — $ 118,608 6.1 %
New York / New Jersey 83 55,844 10,112 40,908 5,972 2,400 115,236 5.9 %
Dallas 59 33,020 3,324 27,248 880 4,328 68,800 3.5 %
Philadelphia 46 10,180 1,692 23,032 22,108 464 57,476 3.0 %
Greater London 50 40,940 15,360 — — — 56,300 2.9 %
Washington D.C. 42 33,528 1,568 6,624 11,556 2,832 56,108 2.9 %
San Francisco 23 31,452 10,604 1,180 5,068 — 48,304 2.5 %
San Diego 19 20,672 6,848 9,632 — 2,856 40,008 2.1 %
Houston 32 5,816 2,236 29,304 — — 37,356 1.9 %
Chicago 43 11,172 7,560 5,144 11,324 — 35,200 1.8 %
Montréal 24 34,080 — — — — 34,080 1.8 %
Charlotte 26 1,152 10,188 21,300 — — 32,640 1.7 %
Raleigh 13 8,084 18,448 2,640 — — 29,172 1.5 %
Boston 25 21,636 5,064 2,356 — — 29,056 1.5 %
Minneapolis 20 (1,108) 15,932 13,976 — — 28,800 1.5 %
Seattle 30 8,424 3,408 15,020 1,544 — 28,396 1.5 %
Toronto 25 25,304 — — — — 25,304 1.3 %
Portland, OR 13 20,516 — — 2,752 — 23,268 1.2 %
Miami 36 320 — 15,872 6,028 — 22,220 1.1 %
Indianapolis 17 656 12,140 464 — 8,852 22,112 1.1 %
Remaining 1,142 446,368 205,852 209,560 108,160 68,384 1,038,324 53.2 %
Total 1,840 $ 874,208 $ 350,144 $ 456,908 $ 175,392 $ 90,116 $ 1,946,768 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Represents current quarter annualized In-Place NOI. See page 19 for reconciliation.
2
Portfolio
(dollars, units and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Seniors Housing Operating
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
3Q21 4Q21 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22
Properties 736 755 805 836 870
Units 71,721 76,105 80,402 84,782 87,375
Total occupancy 74.9 % 76.3 % 76.3 % 77.1 % 78.0 %
Total revenues $ 812,096 $ 877,564 $ 969,979 $ 1,000,962 $ 1,061,753
Operating expenses 644,241 698,601 774,936 777,178 831,556
NOI $ 167,855 $ 178,963 $ 195,043 $ 223,784 $ 230,197
NOI margin 20.7 % 20.4 % 20.1 % 22.4 % 21.7 %
Recurring cap-ex $ 15,395 $ 28,057 $ 23,325 $ 26,806 $ 31,513
Other cap-ex $ 35,588 $ 51,168 $ 45,988 $ 57,225 $ 56,878
Same Store Performance (2)
3Q21 4Q21 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22
Properties 554 554 554 554 554
Occupancy 75.8 % 77.4 % 77.6 % 78.6 % 79.7 %
Same store revenues $ 639,085 $ 655,593 $ 671,984 $ 687,104 $ 707,845
Compensation 307,220 323,408 322,834 327,310 337,059
Utilities 30,519 29,831 34,040 29,600 34,229
Food 24,723 25,785 25,548 27,312 27,970
Repairs and maintenance 18,015 19,304 18,637 18,213 20,391
Property taxes 26,960 24,030 27,451 27,160 27,098
All other 102,168 109,696 105,954 108,074 108,894
Same store operating expenses 509,605 532,054 534,464 537,669 555,641
Same store NOI $ 129,480 $ 123,539 $ 137,520 $ 149,435 $ 152,204
Same store NOI margin % 20.3 % 18.8 % 20.5 % 21.7 % 21.5 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 17.6 %
Partners (3)
Properties Pro Rata Units
Welltower Ownership % (4)
Core Markets 3Q22 NOI % of Total
Sunrise Senior Living 125 10,004 100.0 % Southern California $ 25,992 11.3 %
Atria Senior Living 93 11,296 100.0 % Northern California 16,759 7.3 %
Cogir Management Corporation 50 4,369 88.6 % New York / New Jersey 13,933 6.1 %
Belmont Village 21 2,804 95.0 % Greater London 10,283 4.5 %
Oakmont Management Group 32 1,437 100.0 % Washington D.C. 9,440 4.1 %
Revera 78 8,352 75.0 % Montréal 8,718 3.8 %
Brandywine Living 30 2,837 99.6 % Toronto 6,354 2.8 %
Signature UK 33 2,326 83.2 % Boston 5,336 2.3 %
Senior Resource Group 12 3,268 46.9 % Seattle 2,337 1.0 %
Clover 34 3,630 90.5 % Vancouver 2,176 0.9 %
Legend Senior Living 37 2,809 93.3 % Birmingham, UK 2,008 0.9 %
Chartwell 42 4,479 49.6 % Manchester, UK 1,349 0.6 %
Sagora Senior Living 14 1,483 98.1 % Ottawa 1,276 0.6 %
Care UK 26 1,869 100.0 % Core Markets 105,961 46.2 %
Remaining 242 26,366 All Other 124,236 53.8 %
Total 869 87,329 Total $ 230,197 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Properties, units and occupancy exclude land parcels and properties under development.
(2) See pages 19 and 20 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents partner concentration based on annualized In Place NOI for the quarter ended September 30, 2022. Property count and pro rata units represent the In Place portfolio.
(4) Welltower ownership percentage weighted based on In-Place NOI. See page 19 for reconciliation.
3
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Payment Coverage Stratification
EBITDARM Coverage (1)
EBITDAR Coverage (1)
% of In-Place NOI Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases
< 0.85x 1.6 % 0.1 % 1.7 % 11 6 7.3 % 0.9 % 8.2 % 9 11
0.85x - 0.95x 3.3 % — % 3.3 % 5 1 1.5 % 0.5 % 2.0 % 11 4
0.95x - 1.05x 2.1 % — % 2.1 % 11 2 1.9 % 0.9 % 2.8 % 8 4
1.05x - 1.15x 1.8 % 0.8 % 2.6 % 13 5 3.6 % — % 3.6 % 12 2
1.15x - 1.25x 1.8 % 0.6 % 2.4 % 6 4 0.7 % — % 0.7 % 13 1
1.25x - 1.35x 3.2 % 0.9 % 4.1 % 12 2 — % — % — % — —
> 1.35x 1.2 % 1.8 % 3.0 % 11 6 — % 1.9 % 1.9 % 10 4
Total 15.0 % 4.2 % 19.2 % 10 26 15.0 % 4.2 % 19.2 % 10 26
Revenue and Lease Maturity (2)
Rental Income
Year Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Health
System Long-Term / Post-Acute Care Interest
Income Total
Revenues % of Total
2022 $ — $ 22,902 $ — $ 1,319 $ 7,098 $ 31,319 2.5 %
2023 1,742 48,520 — 840 10,342 61,444 5.0 %
2024 12,110 56,191 — — 26,784 95,085 7.7 %
2025 5,290 38,311 — — 9,513 53,114 4.3 %
2026 44,766 37,769 — 6,916 84,638 174,089 14.1 %
2027 — 36,610 — 1,182 2,133 39,925 3.2 %
2028 5,237 28,286 — 5,246 370 39,139 3.2 %
2029 4,001 29,351 — — 392 33,744 2.7 %
2030 29,524 30,661 — 27,853 140 88,178 7.2 %
2031 16,867 44,264 — 4,253 226 65,610 5.3 %
Thereafter 206,646 121,286 177,103 41,810 3,040 549,885 44.8 %
$ 326,183 $ 494,151 $ 177,103 $ 89,419 $ 144,676 $ 1,231,532 100.0 %
Weighted Avg Maturity Years 10 7 14 10 4 9
Notes:
(1) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics as of June 30, 2022 for stable portfolio only. Agreements included represent 85% of total Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care In-Place NOI. See page 19 for a reconciliation. Agreements with mixed units use the predominant type based on investment balance.
(2) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non cash income. Interest income represents contractual rate of interest for loans, net of collectability reserves if applicable.
4
Portfolio
(dollars, square feet and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands except per square feet)
Outpatient Medical
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
3Q21 4Q21 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22
Properties 366 375 379 384 386
Square feet 17,383,040 17,572,561 18,079,918 18,452,459 18,665,903
Occupancy 94.7 % 94.8 % 94.7 % 94.5 % 94.5 %
Total revenues $ 160,003 $ 161,022 $ 163,597 $ 166,220 $ 171,990
Operating expenses 48,796 47,254 50,599 51,177 53,684
NOI $ 111,207 $ 113,768 $ 112,998 $ 115,043 $ 118,306
NOI margin 69.5 % 70.7 % 69.1 % 69.2 % 68.8 %
Revenues per square foot $ 36.82 $ 36.65 $ 36.19 $ 36.03 $ 37.15
NOI per square foot $ 25.59 $ 25.90 $ 25.00 $ 24.94 $ 25.55
Recurring cap-ex $ 7,327 $ 18,287 $ 9,141 $ 12,752 $ 13,470
Other cap-ex $ 2,064 $ 4,738 $ 1,594 $ 2,303 $ 2,472
Same Store Performance (2)
3Q21 4Q21 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22
Properties 354 354 354 354 354
Occupancy 94.9 % 94.9 % 94.7 % 94.9 % 94.8 %
Same store revenues $ 150,974 $ 150,909 $ 154,162 $ 153,897 $ 155,255
Same store operating expenses 46,954 45,495 48,198 48,271 49,795
Same store NOI $ 104,020 $ 105,414 $ 105,964 $ 105,626 $ 105,460
NOI margin 68.9 % 69.9 % 68.7 % 68.6 % 67.9 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 1.4 %
Portfolio Diversification
by Tenant (3)
Rental Income % of Total Quality Indicators
Kelsey-Seybold $ 26,705 5.4 %
Health system affiliated properties as % of NOI (3)
89.7 %
Novant Health 15,089 3.1 %
Health system affiliated tenants as % of rental income (3)
58.5 %
Virtua 14,991 3.0 %
Retention (trailing twelve months) (3)
90.2 %
Common Spirit Health 14,142 2.9 %
In-house managed properties as % of square feet (3,4)
86.7 %
Providence Health & Services 13,969 2.8 %
Average remaining lease term (years) (3)
6.7
Remaining portfolio 409,255 82.8 %
Average building size (square feet) (3)
60,256
Total $ 494,151 100.0 % Average age (years) 17
Expirations (3)
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter
Occupied square feet 781,545 1,685,718 1,893,356 1,336,588 1,373,964 10,572,963
% of occupied square feet 4.4 % 9.6 % 10.7 % 7.6 % 7.8 % 59.9 %
Notes:
(1) Property count, occupancy, square feet and per square foot metrics exclude properties under development and all land parcels. Per square foot amounts are annualized.
(2) Includes 354 same store properties representing 16,968,378 square feet. See pages 19 and 20 for reconciliation.
(3) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non cash income. Retention includes month-to-month tenants retained.
(4) Excludes tenant managed properties.
5
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Relationship Investment History
Detail of Acquisitions/JVs (1)
2018 2019 2020 2021 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 18-22 Total
Count 15 27 12 35 5 11 7 112
Total $ 3,788,261 $ 4,073,554 $ 910,217 $ 4,101,533.59 $ 740,036 $ 1,043,881 $ 797,656 $ 15,455,139
Low 4,950 7,550 6,201 5,000 24,500 12,000 15,622 4,950
Median 73,727 38,800 48,490 45,157 137,437 37,200 120,175 48,407
High 2,481,723 1,250,000 235,387 1,576,642 389,149 385,653 204,647 2,481,723
Investment Timing
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (2)
Yield
Construction Conversions (3)
Year 1 Yield Dispositions and Loan Payoffs Yield
July $ 368,186 5.9 % $ 27,899 -0.8 % $ 5,934 12.0 %
August 472,805 4.5 % 12,808 1.4 % — — %
September 9,378 7.7 % 37,882 3.0 % 2,300 — %
Total $ 850,369 5.1 % $ 78,589 1.4 % $ 8,234 8.6 %
Notes:
(1) Includes non-yielding asset acquisitions.
(2) Excludes land acquisitions and includes advances for non-real estate loans and excludes advances for development loans.
(3) Includes expansion conversions.
6
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership, except per bed / unit / square foot)
Gross Investment Activity
Third Quarter 2022
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 30 2,337 units $ 312,948 $ 725,034
Outpatient Medical 2 154,492 sf 472 72,622
Loan funding 52,713
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
32 850,369 5.1 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 51 7,716 units 152,532
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 191 units 15,487
Outpatient Medical 7 372,577 sf 25,269
Total development projects 59 193,288
Expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 3 195 units 3,873
Outpatient Medical 2 51,095 sf 5,841
Total expansion projects 5 9,714
Total development funding 64 203,002 7.6 %
Total gross investments 1,053,371 5.6 %
Dispositions and Loan Payoffs (4)
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 1 175 beds 13,143 2,300
Loan payoffs 5,934
Total dispositions and loan payoffs (5)
1 8,234 8.6 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ 1,045,137
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions and pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans. Includes acquisition of additional ownership interest in existing properties which are excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yield represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded and capitalized interest for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in-substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan payoffs and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
7
Investment
(dollars in thousands, except per bed / unit / square foot, at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Gross Investment Activity
Year-To-Date 2022
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 70 7,892 units $ 266,006 $ 2,120,476
Outpatient Medical 11 1,034,257 sf 314 323,660
Health System — — units — 137,437
Loan funding 204,772
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
81 2,786,345 5.2 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 58 8,678 units 730,537
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 191 units 55,551
Outpatient Medical 7 372,577 sf 77,877
Total development projects 66 863,965
Expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 3 195 units 9,267
Outpatient Medical 2 51,095 sf 11,050
Total expansion projects 5 20,317
Total development funding 71 884,282 7.2 %
Total gross investments 3,670,627 5.7 %
Dispositions and Loan Payoffs (4)
Seniors Housing Operating 1 29 units 139,655 4,050
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 72 units 125,347 9,025
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 9 1,098 beds 78,315 85,990
Loan payoffs 165,223
Total dispositions and loan payoffs (5)
11 264,288 8.1 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ 3,406,339
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions and pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans. Includes acquisition of additional ownership interest in existing properties which are excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yield represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded and capitalized interest for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in-substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan payoffs and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
8
Investment
Property Acquisitions Detail
Operator Units Location MSA
Seniors Housing Operating
Kisco Senior Living 187 1700 Tice Valley Boulevard Walnut Creek CA US San Francisco
Oakmont Management Group 87 2400 Pleasant Grove Boulevard Roseville CA US Sacramento
Oakmont Management Group 81 3110 Royal Avenue Simi Valley CA US Oxnard
Oakmont Management Group 121 39905 Via Scena Palm Desert CA US Riverside
Oakmont Management Group 97 4210 Thomas Lake Harris Drive Santa Rosa CA US Santa Rosa, CA
Oakmont Management Group 95 433 West Bastanchury Road Fullerton CA US Los Angeles
Oakmont Management Group 119 460 South La Floresta Drive Brea CA US Los Angeles
StoryPoint Senior Living 62 125 Omni Lake Parkway Hudson OH US Akron
StoryPoint Senior Living 38 1430 Cleaver Road Caro MI US No MSA
StoryPoint Senior Living 152 150 Omni Lake Parkway Hudson OH US Akron
StoryPoint Senior Living 40 1507 Glastonbury Drive St Johns MI US Lansing, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 43 1691 Queens Gate Circle Cuyahoga Falls OH US Akron
StoryPoint Senior Living 96 2550 University Drive South East Massillon OH US Canton, OH
StoryPoint Senior Living 35 2625 North Adrian Highway Adrian MI US Adrian, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 56 2920 Snouffer Road Columbus OH US Columbus
StoryPoint Senior Living 132 33770 Bagley Road North Ridgeville OH US Cleveland
StoryPoint Senior Living 101 3430 Brunswick Lake Parkway Brunswick OH US Cleveland
StoryPoint Senior Living 50 3932 Monitor Road Bay City MI US Bay City, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 46 3939 44th Street South West Grandville MI US Grand Rapids
StoryPoint Senior Living 44 4124 Waldo Avenue Midland MI US Midland, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 97 4245 Glen Drive Millersburg OH US Cleveland
StoryPoint Senior Living 48 4276 Kroger Drive Swartz Creek MI US Flint, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 41 445 North Lotz Road Canton MI US Detroit
StoryPoint Senior Living 40 502 North Sherman Street Ludington MI US Ludington, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 39 620 Ely Street Allegan MI US Holland, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 64 706 Kentucky Avenue South Haven MI US Kalamazoo-Portage, MI
StoryPoint Senior Living 101 8001 Red Buckeye Drive Tipp City OH US Dayton
StoryPoint Senior Living 137 850 Applegrove Street North Canton OH US Canton, OH
StoryPoint Senior Living 62 865 Maxtown Road Westerville OH US Columbus
StoryPoint Senior Living 26 9494 Paden Road Lakeview MI US Grand Rapids
Total 2,337
Outpatient Medical Sq. Ft
UMMS TOWSON 55,969 8322 Bellona Avenue Towson MD US Baltimore
Regents Forty 180 La Jolla 98,523 4180 La Jolla Village Drive La Jolla CA US San Diego
Total 154,492
9
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Summary (1)
Unit Mix
Facility MSA Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Commitment Amount Balance at 09/30/22
Estimated Conversion (3)
Seniors Housing Operating
New York 528 400 — 92 36 $ 149,605 $ 145,516 4Q22
Greater London 82 — — 51 31 38,969 19,613 4Q22
Dallas 193 193 — — — 38,054 30,055 4Q22 - 1Q23
Birmingham, UK 66 — — 41 25 13,361 12,683 4Q22
Cleveland 119 119 — — — 13,016 12,078 4Q22
Leicester 60 — — 36 24 12,470 11,122 4Q22
Greater London 76 — — 46 30 11,145 8,988 4Q22
New York 72 — — 36 36 41,922 26,536 1Q23
Austin 196 196 — — — 39,500 23,282 1Q23 - 2Q23
Austin 188 188 — — — 36,215 26,723 1Q23 - 2Q23
Coventry 76 — — 38 38 17,049 12,055 1Q23
Dallas 57 57 — — — 15,765 10,406 1Q23 - 2Q23
Meadville, PA 128 128 — — — 13,861 13,861 1Q23
Pittsburgh 116 116 — — — 13,216 12,602 1Q23
Charlotte 328 328 — — — 91,836 38,146 2Q23 - 3Q23
New York 158 — — 71 87 79,391 64,381 2Q23
Barnstable Town, MA 120 120 — — — 31,454 31,454 2Q23
Hartford 128 128 — — — 22,146 22,146 2Q23
Hartford 122 122 — — — 20,747 20,747 2Q23
Boston 167 — 91 48 28 81,003 27,256 3Q23
Phoenix 199 199 — — — 54,754 10,942 3Q23 - 4Q23
Phoenix 204 204 — — — 53,400 16,540 3Q23 - 4Q23
Tampa 206 206 — — — 52,493 7,485 4Q23 - 1Q24
Houston 130 130 — — — 31,738 6,458 4Q23 - 1Q24
Kansas City 134 134 — — — 21,074 21,074 4Q23
Cincinnati 122 122 — — — 16,385 3,882 4Q23
Naples, FL 188 188 — — — 56,910 9,034 1Q24 - 2Q24
Dallas 52 52 — — — 16,358 3,310 1Q24 - 2Q24
Washington D.C. 302 — 190 89 23 156,194 57,292 2Q24
Boston 160 — 82 37 41 148,590 60,395 2Q24
Washington D.C. 124 — 70 25 29 119,890 34,321 2Q24
Killeen, TX 245 245 — — — 65,569 7,698 3Q24 - 4Q24
Peterborough 80 — — 52 28 11,961 1,231 3Q24
Burley 70 — — 45 25 11,254 1,560 3Q24
San Jose 509 509 — — — 110,701 104,851 1Q25
San Jose 176 — — 143 33 64,686 37,593 1Q25
San Jose 158 — — 158 — 61,929 29,694 1Q25
Little Rock 283 283 — — — 13,893 1,856 3Q25
Sunrise Developments 939 — — 584 355 236,700 121,712 1Q23 - 3Q24
Subtotal 7,261 4,367 433 1,592 869 2,085,204 1,106,578
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Raleigh 191 — 151 40 — 141,748 89,893 2Q23
Subtotal 191 — 151 40 — 141,748 89,893
Outpatient Medical Rentable Square Ft Preleased % Health System Affiliation Commitment Amount Balance at 09/30/22 Estimated Conversion
Tyler, TX 85,214 100 % Yes 34,750 26,693 4Q22
Houston 36,500 100 % Yes 18,031 14,701 4Q22
Houston 16,835 100 % Yes 9,935 2,924 1Q23
Oklahoma City 134,285 100 % Yes 93,329 35,656 2Q23
Beaumont-Port Arthur, TX 35,831 100 % Yes 11,615 2,781 2Q23
Houston 16,830 100 % Yes 9,077 1,561 2Q23
Subtotal 325,495 176,737 84,316
Total Development Projects $ 2,403,689 $ 1,280,787
Note:
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in-substance real estate) and excludes redevelopments and expansion projects. Commitment amount represents current balances plus capitalized interest and unfunded commitments to complete development.
(2) Relates to ten properties, with a weighted-average ownership of 37%.
(3) Estimated conversion ranges relate to projects to be delivered in phases.
10
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Funding Projections (1)
Projected Future Funding
Projects Beds / Units / Square Feet
Projected Yields (2)
2022 Funding Funding Thereafter Total Unfunded Commitments Committed Balances
Seniors Housing Operating 48 7,261 7.0 % $ 206,734 $ 771,892 $ 978,626 $ 2,085,204
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 191 9.3 % 17,285 34,570 51,855 141,748
Outpatient Medical 6 325,495 6.1 % 38,941 53,480 92,421 176,737
Total 55 7.1 % $ 262,960 $ 859,942 $ 1,122,902 $ 2,403,689
Development Project Conversion Estimates (1)
Quarterly Conversions Annual Conversions
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
1Q22 actual $ 228,021 2.2 % 7.2 % 2022 actual $ 390,791 1.4 % 7.3 %
2Q22 actual 84,181 (0.7) % 8.1 % 2022 estimate 291,347 3.7 % 6.5 %
3Q22 actual 78,589 1.4 % 6.7 % 2023 estimate 1,129,461 1.4 % 7.3 %
4Q22 estimate 291,347 3.7 % 6.5 % 2024 estimate 731,671 (0.4) % 7.2 %
1Q23 estimate 199,934 (1.6) % 7.4 % 2025 estimate 251,209 6.4 % 6.5 %
2Q23 estimate 569,096 3.3 % 7.5 % Total 2,794,479 1.6 % 7.1 %
3Q23 estimate 214,818 0.4 % 7.1 % Total $ 5,588,958
4Q23 estimate 145,613 (0.1) % 6.6 %
1Q24 estimate 103,078 1.2 % 6.7 %
2Q24 estimate 519,089 (0.8) % 7.5 %
3Q24 estimate 43,935 (3.1) % 7.5 %
4Q24 estimate 65,569 1.6 % 5.7 %
1Q25 estimate 237,316 6.5 % 6.5 %
3Q25 estimate 13,893 4.1 % 6.9 %
Total $ 2,794,479 1.6 % 7.1 %
Unstabilized Properties
06/30/2022 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions 09/30/2022 Properties Beds / Units
Seniors Housing Operating 39 (1) 3 — 41 5,791
Seniors Housing Triple-net 23 (3) — — 20 2,256
Total 62 (4) 3 — 61 8,047
Occupancy 06/30/2022 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions Progressions 09/30/2022 Properties
0% - 50% 29 (1) 3 — (2) 29
50% - 70% 23 (1) — — (3) 19
70% + 10 (2) — — 5 13
Total 62 (4) 3 — — 61
Occupancy 09/30/2022 Properties Months In Operation Revenues
% of Total Revenues (4)
Gross Investment Balance % of Total Gross Investment
0% - 50% 29 13 $ 45,823 0.8 % $ 962,150 2.3 %
50% - 70% 19 20 68,169 1.2 % 618,858 1.5 %
70% + 13 26 67,173 1.1 % 388,206 0.9 %
Total 61 11 $ 181,165 3.1 % $ 1,969,214 4.7 %
Notes:
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in-substance real estate) and excludes expansion projects.
(2) Actual yields may vary.
(3) Includes expansion and development loan conversions.
(4) Percent of total revenues based on current quarter annualized pro rata total revenues on page 13.
11
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Components of NAV
Stabilized NOI Pro rata beds/units/square feet
Seniors Housing Operating (1)
$ 874,208 87,329 units
Seniors Housing Triple-net 350,144 24,054 units
Outpatient Medical 456,908 18,665,903 square feet
Health System 175,392 20,279 units/beds
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 90,116 6,484 beds
Total In-Place NOI (2)
1,946,768
Incremental stabilized NOI (3)
106,406
Total stabilized NOI $ 2,053,174
Obligations
Lines of credit and commercial paper (4)
$ 655,000
Senior unsecured notes (4)
12,479,012
Secured debt (4)
3,064,122
Financing lease liabilities 109,414
Total debt $ 16,307,548
Add (Subtract):
Other liabilities (assets), net (5)
$ 62,754
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (425,184)
Net obligations $ 15,945,118
Other Assets
Land parcels $ 280,601
Effective Interest Rate (8)
Real estate loans receivable (6)
1,267,731 10.7%
Non real estate loans receivable (7)
257,996 11.3%
Joint venture real estate loans receivables (9)
246,145 5.8%
Other investments (10)
8,347
Property dispositions (11)
466,060
Development properties: (12)
Current balance 1,306,830
Unfunded commitments 1,174,446
Committed balances $ 2,481,276
Projected yield 7.1 %
Projected NOI $ 176,171
Common Shares Outstanding (13)
474,833
Notes:
(1) Includes $15,081,000 attributable to our proportional share of income from unconsolidated management company investments.
(2) See page 19 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents incremental NOI from Seniors Housing Operating unstabilized properties.
(4) Represents principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, deferred loan expenses or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet. Includes $1,047,108,000 o f foreign secured debt.
(5) Includes liabilities / (assets) that impact cash or NOI and excludes non real estate loans and non-cash items such as the following (in thousands):
Unearned revenues $ 421,438
Below market tenant lease intangibles, net 26,429
Deferred taxes, net (31,093)
Intangible assets, net (61,383)
Other non-cash liabilities / (assets), net 6,438
Total non-cash liabilities/(assets), net $ 361,829
(6) Represents $1,280,696,000 of real estate loans, excluding development loans and including certain in substance real estate developments and held to maturity debt securities, and net of $12,965,000 of credit allowances.
(7) Represents $409,796,000 of non-real estate loans, net of $151,800,000 of credit allowances.
(8) Average cash-pay interest rates are 6.6%, 2.2% and 5.8% for real estate, non-real estate loans and joint venture real estate loans, respectively. Rates exclude non-accrual/interest-free loans.
(9) Represents partners' share of Welltower loans made to our partners in select joint ventures, secured by their interest in the joint venture properties.
(10) Represents the fair value of Genesis Healthcare, Inc. stock investment based on closing stock price at September 30, 2022 and estimated fair value of a 3.4% ownership in a Seniors Housing Operating portfolio excluded from IPNOI.
(11) Represents proceeds from expected property dispositions in the next twelve months.
(12) See pages 10-11. Also includes expansion projects.
(13) Includes redeemable OP units.
12
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Net Operating Income (1)
3Q21 4Q21 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22
Revenues:
Seniors Housing Operating
Resident fees and services $ 809,930 $ 870,039 $ 965,574 $ 1,000,571 $ 1,057,814
Interest income 1,117 1,091 1,398 1,642 2,210
Other income 1,049 6,434 3,007 (1,251) 1,729
Total revenues 812,096 877,564 969,979 1,000,962 1,061,753
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Rental income 114,039 116,497 108,792 110,914 103,588
Interest income 32,153 33,149 33,097 31,725 32,726
Other income 901 1,068 1,471 1,786 1,307
Total revenues 147,093 150,714 143,360 144,425 137,621
Outpatient Medical
Rental income 157,474 155,715 160,288 163,808 170,051
Interest income 472 51 71 65 80
Other income 2,057 5,256 3,238 2,347 1,859
Total revenues 160,003 161,022 163,597 166,220 171,990
Health System
Rental income 46,204 47,440 51,243 52,052 52,174
Total revenues 46,204 47,440 51,243 52,052 52,174
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Rental income 32,255 30,989 30,039 29,189 30,827
Interest income 6,122 5,381 5,107 5,499 5,760
Other income 184 — 234 — 513
Total revenues 38,561 36,370 35,380 34,688 37,100
Corporate
Other income 3,362 3,548 3,183 3,665 3,942
Total revenues 3,362 3,548 3,183 3,665 3,942
Total
Rental income 349,972 350,641 350,362 355,963 356,640
Resident fees and services 809,930 870,039 965,574 1,000,571 1,057,814
Interest Income 39,864 39,672 39,673 38,931 40,776
Other Income 7,553 16,306 11,133 6,547 9,350
Total revenues 1,207,319 1,276,658 1,366,742 1,402,012 1,464,580
Property operating expenses:
Seniors Housing Operating 644,241 698,601 774,936 777,178 831,556
Seniors Housing Triple-net 7,927 8,236 7,421 7,778 7,688
Outpatient Medical 48,796 47,254 50,599 51,177 53,684
Health System 64 64 35 100 68
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 3,859 4,085 3,958 3,837 3,988
Corporate 3,054 1,935 2,615 2,645 5,794
Total property operating expenses 707,941 760,175 839,564 842,715 902,778
Net operating income:
Seniors Housing Operating 167,855 178,963 195,043 223,784 230,197
Seniors Housing Triple-net 139,166 142,478 135,939 136,647 129,933
Outpatient Medical 111,207 113,768 112,998 115,043 118,306
Health System 46,140 47,376 51,208 51,952 52,106
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 34,702 32,285 31,422 30,851 33,112
Corporate 308 1,613 568 1,020 (1,852)
Net operating income $ 499,378 $ 516,483 $ 527,178 $ 559,297 $ 561,802
Note:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 18. Includes amounts from investments sold or held for sale. NOI related to DownREITs included at 100%. Excludes NOI related to a leasehold portfolio interest for 26 properties assumed by a wholly-owned affiliate in conjunction with the Holiday Retirement transaction. Subsequent to the initial transaction, we purchased eight of the leased properties and one of the properties was sold by the landlord and removed from the lease. No rent was paid in excess of net cash flow relating to the leasehold properties and therefore, the leasehold interests were excluded from NOI and relevant metrics such as property count, unit count, IPNOI. same store NOI, REVPOR and same store REVPOR. Effective April 1, 2022, the lease was terminated and the related lease termination income was also excluded from NOI.
13
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Leverage and EBITDA Reconciliations (1)
Twelve Months Ended Three Months Ended
September 30, 2022 September 30, 2022
Net income (loss) $ 224,964 $ (2,653)
Interest expense 510,976 139,682
Income tax expense (benefit) 13,386 3,257
Depreciation and amortization 1,252,583 353,699
EBITDA 2,001,909 493,985
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 28,814 6,698
Stock-based compensation (2)
22,525 6,115
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (497) 2
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (32,139) (1,064)
Impairment of assets 6,713 4,356
Provision for loan losses, net (188) 490
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 7,246 6,905
Other expenses (2)
92,076 15,481
Lease termination and leasehold interest adjustment (3)
(63,454) —
Casualty losses, net of recoveries (4)
7,802 328
Other impairment (5)
(620) —
Total adjustments 68,278 39,311
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,070,187 $ 533,296
Interest Coverage Ratios
Interest expense $ 510,976 $ 139,682
Capitalized interest 26,054 8,863
Non-cash interest expense (18,679) (2,882)
Total interest $ 518,351 $ 145,663
EBITDA $ 2,001,909 $ 493,985
Interest coverage ratio 3.86 x 3.39 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,070,187 $ 533,296
Adjusted Interest coverage ratio 3.99 x 3.66 x
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios
Total interest $ 518,351 $ 145,663
Secured debt principal amortization 61,002 13,775
Total fixed charges $ 579,353 $ 159,438
EBITDA $ 2,001,909 $ 493,985
Fixed charge coverage ratio 3.46 x 3.10 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,070,187 $ 533,296
Adjusted Fixed charge coverage ratio 3.57 x 3.34 x
Net Debt to EBITDA Ratios
Total debt (6)
$ 15,210,358
Less: cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (425,184)
Net debt $ 14,785,174
EBITDA Annualized $ 1,975,940
Net debt to EBITDA ratio 7.48 x
Adjusted EBITDA Annualized $ 2,133,184
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 6.93 x
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 18.
(2) Certain severance-related costs are included in stock-based compensation and excluded from other expenses.
(3) Effective April 1, 2022, our leasehold interest relating to the master lease with National Health Investors ("NHI") for 17 properties assumed in conjunction with the Holiday Retirement acquisition was terminated as a result of the transition or sale of the properties by NHI. We recognized a gain of $58,621,000 related to the termination of this lease in other income. The net impact of these leasehold properties inclusive of the gain has been excluded from Adjusted EBITDA.
(4) Represents casualty losses net of any insurance recoveries.
(5) Primarily related to the release of previously reserved straight-line receivables.
(6) Includes unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments and financing lease liabilities of $109,414,000 . Excludes operating lease liabilities of $301,001,000 related to ASC 842 adoption.
14
Financial
(in thousands except share price)
Leverage and Current Capitalization (1)
% of Total
Book Capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ 654,715 1.86 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
14,555,643 41.30 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (425,184) (1.21) %
Net debt to consolidated book capitalization $ 14,785,174 41.95 %
Total equity (4)
20,457,650 58.05 %
Consolidated book capitalization $ 35,242,824 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
942,801
Total book capitalization $ 36,185,625
Undepreciated Book Capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ 654,715 1.53 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
14,555,643 33.90 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (425,184) (0.99) %
Net debt to consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 14,785,174 34.44 %
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 7,687,077 17.91 %
Total equity (4)
20,457,650 47.65 %
Consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 42,929,901 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
942,801
Total undepreciated book capitalization $ 43,872,702
Enterprise Value
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ 654,715 1.41 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
14,555,643 31.33 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (425,184) (0.92) %
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value $ 14,785,174 31.82 %
Common shares outstanding 472,517
Period end share price 64.32
Common equity market capitalization $ 30,392,293 65.41 %
Noncontrolling interests (4)
1,288,343 2.77 %
Consolidated enterprise value $ 46,465,810 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
942,801
Total enterprise value $ 47,408,611
Secured Debt as % of Total Assets
Secured debt (2)
$ 2,121,628 5.67 %
Total assets $ 37,414,488
Total Debt as % of Total Assets
Total debt (2)(3)
$ 15,210,358 40.65 %
Total assets $ 37,414,488
Unsecured Debt as % of Unencumbered Assets
Unsecured debt (2)
$ 12,979,316 35.37 %
Unencumbered assets $ 36,690,910
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 18.
(2) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts and other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(3) Includes financing lease liabilities of $109,414,000 and excludes operating lease liabilities of $301,001,000 rel ated to ASC 842 adoption.
(4) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our balance sheet.
(5) Net of Welltower's share of unconsolidated debt and minority partners' share of Welltower consolidated debt.
15
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Debt Maturities and Principal Payments (1)
Year
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3,4,5,6)
Consolidated Secured Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (7)
% of Total
Wtd. Avg. Interest Rate (8)
2022 $ — $ — $ 268,769 $ 80,281 $ (99,488) $ 249,562 1.54 % 4.54 %
2023 — — 494,352 183,958 (79,900) 598,410 3.69 % 4.50 %
2024 — 1,350,000 318,176 142,363 (56,535) 1,754,004 10.83 % 3.94 %
2025 — 1,260,000 224,036 513,116 (26,864) 1,970,288 12.16 % 3.84 %
2026 655,000 700,000 124,195 60,248 (19,189) 1,520,254 9.39 % 3.80 %
2027 — 1,899,942 177,029 106,413 (37,125) 2,146,259 13.25 % 3.51 %
2028 — 1,362,370 81,794 25,099 (12,385) 1,456,878 8.99 % 4.46 %
2029 — 1,050,000 273,812 35,494 (901) 1,358,405 8.39 % 3.28 %
2030 — 750,000 34,715 29,693 (122) 814,286 5.03 % 3.13 %
2031 — 1,350,000 4,995 30,153 (128) 1,385,020 8.55 % 2.77 %
Thereafter — 2,756,700 119,448 73,810 (5,190) 2,944,768 18.18 % 4.58 %
Totals $ 655,000 $ 12,479,012 $ 2,121,321 $ 1,280,628 $ (337,827) $ 16,198,134 100.00 %
Weighted Avg. Interest Rate (8)
3.46 % 3.86 % 3.91 % 3.93 % 3.77 % 3.85 %
Weighted Avg. Maturity Years 3.7
(2)
7.1 3.5 4.8 2.2 6.4
(2)
% Floating Rate Debt (8)
100.00 % 13.96 % 30.90 % 22.20 % 45.19 % 19.66 %
Debt by Local Currency (1)
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3,4,5,6)
Consolidated Secured Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (7)
Investment Hedges (9)
United States $ 655,000 $ 10,910,000 $ 1,169,345 $ 965,875 $ (118,206) $ 13,582,014 $ —
United Kingdom — 1,169,070 — — — 1,169,070 2,105,114
Canada — 399,942 951,976 314,753 (219,621) 1,447,050 781,705
Totals $ 655,000 $ 12,479,012 $ 2,121,321 $ 1,280,628 $ (337,827) $ 16,198,134 $ 2,886,819
Notes:
(1) Represents principal amounts due excluding unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(2) The 2026 maturity reflects the $615,000,000 in principal outstanding on our unsecured commercial paper program as of September 30, 2022. The unsecured revolving credit facility is comprised of a $1,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2026 (none outstanding at September 30, 2022) and a $3,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2025 ($40,000,000 outstanding at September 30, 2022). Both tranches may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. Commercial paper borrowings are backstopped by the unsecured revolving credit facility. As such, we calculate the weighted average remaining term of our commercial paper borrowings using the extended maturity date of the unsecured revolving credit facility.
(3) 2027 includes a $1,000,000,000 unsecured term loan and a CAD $250,000,000 unsecured term loan (approximately $181,792,000 USD at September 30, 2022). The loans mature on July 19, 2026. The interest rates on the loans are adjusted SOFR + 0.85% for USD and CDOR + 0.85% for CAD. Both term loans may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option.
(4) 2027 includes CAD $300,000,000 of 2.95% senior unsecured notes (approximately $218,150,000 USD at September 30, 2022) that matures on January 15, 2027.
(5) 2028 includes £550,000,000 of 4.80% senior unsecured notes (approximately $612,370,000 USD at September 30, 2022). The notes mature on November 20, 2028.
(6) Thereafter includes £500,000,000 of 4.50% senior unsecured notes (approximately $556,700,000 USD at September 30, 2022). The notes mature on December 1, 2034.
(7) Excludes operating lease liabilities of $301,001,000 and finance lease liabilities of $109,414,000 related to ASC 842 adoption.
(8) Based on variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of September 30, 2022. The interest rate on the unsecured revolving credit facility is adjusted SOFR + 0.775%. Commercial paper, senior notes and secured debt average interest rate represents the face value note rate. Includes the impact of notional swaps and caps to convert fixed rate debt to SOFR-based floating rate debt, LIBOR-based floating rate debt and CDOR-based floating rate debt to fixed rate debt.
(9) Represents notional value of foreign currency derivative contracts at end of period spot FX rates. The fair market value of the gains (losses) of these contracts is currently USD $400,356,000, as represented in other assets (liabilities) on the balance sheet. We supplement our local currency debt with foreign currency derivative contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our international investments. Currently, our foreign currency derivatives are comprised of forward contracts and cross-currency swaps.
16
Glossary
Age: Current year, less the year built, adjusted for major renovations. Average age is weighted by pro rata NOI.
Cap-ex, Tenant Improvements, Leasing Commissions: Represents amounts incurred for: 1) recurring and non-recurring capital expenditures required to maintain and re-tenant our properties; 2) second generation tenant improvements; and 3) leasing commissions paid to third party leasing agents to secure new tenants.
Construction Conversion: Represents completed construction projects that were placed into service and began generating NOI.
EBITDAR: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDAR and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDAR Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDAR to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDAR coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
EBITDARM: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDARM and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDARM Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDARM to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDARM coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations, assuming that management fees are not paid. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
Health System: Includes independent, assisted living, dementia care and long-term/post-acute care properties subject to triple-net operating leases to or guaranteed by investment-grade health systems.
Health System - Affiliated: Outpatient medical properties are considered affiliated with a health system if one or more of the following conditions are met: 1) the land parcel is contained within the physical boundaries of a hospital campus; 2) the land parcel is located adjacent to the campus; 3) the building is physically connected to the hospital regardless of the land ownership structure; 4) a ground lease is maintained with a health system entity; 5) a master lease is maintained with a health system entity; 6) significant square footage is leased to a health system entity; 7) the property includes an ambulatory surgery center with a hospital partnership interest; or (8) a significant square footage is leased to a physician group that is either employed, directly or indirectly by a health system, or has a significant clinical and financial affiliation with the health system.
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care: Includes all skilled nursing, rehabilitation and long-term/post-acute care facilities where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement and are subject to triple-net operating leases. Most of these facilities focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.
MSA: For the United States and Canada, we use the Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Census Metropolitan Areas as defined by Statistics Canada, respectively. For the United Kingdom, we generally use the Metro Region as defined by EuroStat with Greater London defined as a 55-mile radius around the city’s center.
Occupancy: Outpatient Medical occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied, including month-to-month leases, as of the date reported. Occupancy for all other property types represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the most recent quarter of available data and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and has not independently verified the information. Occupancy metrics are reflected at our pro rata share.
Outpatient Medical: Outpatient medical buildings include properties offering ambulatory medical services such as prima ry and secondary care, outpatient surgery, diagnostic procedures and rehabilitation. These properties are typically affiliated with a health system and may be located on a hospital campus. They are specifically designed and constructed for use by health care professionals to provide services to patients. They also include medical office buildings that typically contain sole and group physician practices and may provide laboratory and other specialty services.
Seniors Housing Operating (SHO): Includes independent, assisted living and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. structured to take advantage of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007.
Seniors Housing Triple-net (SH-NNN): Includes independent, assisted living, and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. subject to triple-net operating leases and loans receivable.
Square Feet : Net rentable square feet calculated utilizing Building Owners and Managers Association measurement standards.
Stable: Generally, a triple-net rental property is considered stable (versus unstabilized or under development) when it has achieved EBITDAR coverage of 1.00x or greater for three consecutive months or, if targeted performance has not been achieved, 12 months following the budgeted stabilization date. Triple-net properties for which income is recognized on a cash basis and for which substantially all contractual rent during the period has not been collected are excluded from the stable portfolio. A Seniors Housing Operating facility is considered stable upon the earliest of 90% occupancy, NOI at or above the underwritten target or 12 months past the underwritten stabilization date. Excludes assets held for sale and assets disposed of during the current quarter.
Unstabilized: An acquisition that does not meet the stable criteria upon closing or a construction property that has opened but not yet reached stabilization.
17
Supplemental Reporting Measures
We believe that revenues and net income, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, REVPOR, SS REVPOR, NOI, In-Place NOI ("IPNOI") and SSNOI to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations or transaction costs. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. IPNOI represents NOI excluding interest income, other income and non-IPNOI and adjusted for timing of current quarter portfolio changes such as acquisitions, development conversions, segment transitions, dispositions and investments held for sale. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
REVPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. It is calculated as our pro rata version of total resident fees and services revenues from the income statement divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS REVPOR is used to evaluate the REVPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. It is based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and includes any revenue normalizations used for SSNOI. We use REVPOR and SS REVPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses/impairments on properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and secured debt principal amortization. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA, book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None of the supplemental reporting measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Multi-period amounts may not equal the sum of the individual quarterly amounts due to rounding.
18
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands)
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
NOI Reconciliation 3Q21 4Q21 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22
Net income (loss) $ 190,336 $ 66,194 $ 65,751 $ 95,672 $ (2,653)
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (119,954) (11,673) (22,934) 3,532 (1,064)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 15,832 12,174 2,884 7,058 6,698
Income tax expense (benefit) 4,940 2,051 5,013 3,065 3,257
Other expenses 3,575 15,483 26,069 35,166 15,481
Impairment of assets 1,490 2,357 — — 4,356
Provision for loan losses, net (271) (39) (804) 165 490
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (5) (1,090) (12) 603 2
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (8,078) (830) 2,578 (1,407) 6,905
General and administrative expenses 32,256 33,109 37,706 36,554 34,811
Depreciation and amortization 267,754 284,501 304,088 310,295 353,699
Interest expense 122,522 121,848 121,696 127,750 139,682
Consolidated net operating income 510,397 524,085 542,035 618,453 561,664
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
20,042 20,287 20,142 23,648 27,374
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(31,061) (27,889) (34,999) (82,804) (27,236)
Pro rata net operating income (NOI) (3)
$ 499,378 $ 516,483 $ 527,178 $ 559,297 $ 561,802
In-Place NOI Reconciliation
At Welltower pro rata ownership Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing Triple-net Outpatient Medical Health System Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Corporate Total
Revenues $ 1,061,753 $ 137,621 $ 171,990 $ 52,174 $ 37,100 $ 3,942 $ 1,464,580
Property operating expenses (831,556) (7,688) (53,684) (68) (3,988) (5,794) (902,778)
NOI (3)
230,197 129,933 118,306 52,106 33,112 (1,852) 561,802
Adjust:
Interest income (2,210) (32,726) (80) — (5,760) — (40,776)
Other income (1,188) (481) 209 — (513) (302) (2,275)
Sold / held for sale 171 (1) (13) (577) (1,856) — (2,276)
Non operational (4)
582 — (95) — (132) — 355
Non In-Place NOI (5)
(11,446) (9,189) (4,500) (7,681) (2,322) 2,154 (32,984)
Timing adjustments (6)
2,446 — 400 — — — 2,846
Total adjustments (11,645) (42,397) (4,079) (8,258) (10,583) 1,852 (75,110)
In-Place NOI 218,552 87,536 114,227 43,848 22,529 — 486,692
Annualized In-Place NOI $ 874,208 $ 350,144 $ 456,908 $ 175,392 $ 90,116 $ — $ 1,946,768
Same Store Property Reconciliation
Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Health System Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Total
Total properties 939 311 401 205 92 1,948
Recent acquisitions/ development conversions (7)
(200) (15) (29) — — (244)
Under development (48) — (7) — — (55)
Under redevelopment (8)
(4) — (3) — (3) (10)
Current held for sale (2) — (1) (4) (7) (14)
Land parcels, loans and sub-leases (16) (10) (7) — — (33)
Transitions (9)
(111) (1) — — (3) (115)
Other (10)
(4) — — — (3) (7)
Same store properties 554 285 354 201 76 1,470
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove NOI related to certain leasehold properties. See page 13 for more information.
(3) Represents Welltower's pro rata share of NOI. See page 13 for more information.
(4) Primarily includes development properties and land parcels.
(5) Primarily represents non-cash NOI.
(6) Represents timing adjustments for current quarter acquisitions, construction conversions and segment or operator transitions
(7) Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the same store pool 5 full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy.
(8) Redevelopment properties will enter the same store pool after 5 full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion.
(9) Transitioned properties will enter the same store pool after 5 full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new structure.
(10) Represents properties that are either closed or being closed.
19
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Same Store NOI Reconciliation 3Q21 4Q21 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 Y/o/Y
Seniors Housing Operating
NOI $ 167,855 $ 178,963 $ 195,043 $ 223,784 $ 230,197
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (135) (628) (138) (242) (171)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (34,175) (42,374) (55,366) (60,643) (77,767)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(401) (604) (331) 359 1,435
Normalizing adjustment for government grants (2)
(4,978) (15,610) (1,568) (15,511) (2,435)
Normalizing adjustment for casualty related expenses, net (3)
1,130 4,154 (120) 1,688 945
Other normalizing adjustments (4)
184 (362) — — —
SSNOI (5)
129,480 123,539 137,520 149,435 152,204 17.6 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net
NOI 139,166 142,478 135,939 136,647 129,933
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (6,406) (5,263) (4,854) (10,628) (8,246)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (51,190) (51,024) (42,712) (40,876) (41,604)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(170) 302 507 1,477 2,478
Other normalizing adjustments (4)
(117) 59 (213) 1 —
SSNOI 81,283 86,552 88,667 86,621 82,561 1.6 %
Outpatient Medical
NOI 111,207 113,768 112,998 115,043 118,306
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (2,626) (3,247) (2,833) (2,952) (3,421)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (4,228) (5,714) (4,239) (6,640) (8,473)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
853 313 575 437 192
Normalizing adjustment for lease restructure (6)
(705) — — — (1,056)
Other normalizing adjustments (4)
(481) 294 (537) (262) (88)
SSNOI 104,020 105,414 105,964 105,626 105,460 1.4 %
Health System
NOI 46,140 47,376 51,208 51,952 52,106
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (5,292) (6,372) (8,289) (8,464) (7,681)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (684) (478) (455) (461) (576)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
2,510 2,533 627 — —
SSNOI 42,674 43,059 43,091 43,027 43,849 2.8 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
NOI 34,702 32,285 31,422 30,851 33,112
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (954) (939) (840) (725) (1,654)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (11,679) (9,375) (8,081) (7,721) (8,432)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(21) (19) (10) 4 43
Normalizing adjustment for easement (7)
— — — — (327)
SSNOI 22,048 21,952 22,491 22,409 22,742 3.1 %
Corporate
NOI 308 1,613 568 1,020 (1,852)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (308) (1,613) (568) (1,020) 1,852
SSNOI — — — — —
Total
NOI 499,378 516,483 527,178 559,297 561,802
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (15,413) (16,449) (16,954) (23,011) (21,173)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (102,264) (110,578) (111,421) (117,361) (135,000)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
2,771 2,525 1,368 2,277 4,148
Normalizing adjustments, net (4,967) (11,465) (2,438) (14,084) (2,961)
SSNOI $ 379,505 $ 380,516 $ 397,733 $ 407,118 $ 406,816 7.2 %
Notes:
(1) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.2738 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.3501.
(2) Represents normalizing adjustment related to amounts recognized related to the Health and Human Services Provider Relief Fund in the United States and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
(3) Represents normalizing adjustment related to casualty related expenses net of any insurance reimbursements.
(4) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type.
(5) SHO SSNOI includes expenses that are directly attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic net of any reimbursements exclusive of those included in (2) above.
(6) Represents normalizing adjustment related to a lease restructure associated with one Outpatient Medical tenant in each respective period.
(7) Represents normalizing adjustment related to income received in exchange for the grant of an easement.
20
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands, except REVPOR, SS REVPOR and SSNOI/unit)
SHO REVPOR Reconciliation United States United Kingdom Canada Total
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 859,429 $ 99,386 $ 113,785 $ 1,072,600
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to Welltower (1)
31,256 — 22,697 53,953
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(32,484) (9,549) (22,767) (64,800)
Pro rata SHO revenues (3)
858,201 89,837 113,715 1,061,753
SHO interest and other income (11,030) (30) (214) (11,274)
SHO revenues attributable to sold and held for sale properties (334) — — (334)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(1,975) 13,231 2,598 13,854
SHO local revenues 844,862 103,038 116,099 1,063,999
Average occupied units/month 51,007 3,479 12,988 67,474
REVPOR/month in USD 5,476 9,792 2,955 5,213
REVPOR/month in local currency (4)
7,253 3,764
Reconciliations of SHO SS REVPOR Growth, SSNOI Growth and SSNOI/Unit
United States United Kingdom Canada Total
3Q21 3Q22 3Q21 3Q22 3Q21 3Q22 3Q21 3Q22
SHO SS REVPOR Growth
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 637,395 $ 859,429 $ 101,430 $ 99,386 $ 100,694 $ 113,785 $ 839,519 $ 1,072,600
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
23,968 31,256 — — 21,802 22,697 45,770 53,953
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(38,439) (32,484) (12,725) (9,549) (22,029) (22,767) (73,193) (64,800)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
622,924 858,201 88,705 89,837 100,467 113,715 812,096 1,061,753
Non-cash revenues on same store properties (556) (556) — — — — (556) (556)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (104,274) (278,659) (67,781) (67,714) (209) (12,686) (172,264) (359,059)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
517 (61) 458 3,310 (1,166) 2,458 (191) 5,707
SHO SS revenues (5)
518,611 578,925 21,382 25,433 99,092 103,487 639,085 707,845
Avg. occupied units/month (6)
28,267 29,993 766 875 11,154 11,392 40,187 42,260
SHO SS REVPOR (7)
$ 6,066 $ 6,382 $ 9,229 $ 9,610 $ 2,937 $ 3,003 $ 5,258 $ 5,538
SS REVPOR YOY growth 5.2 % 4.1 % 2.2 % 5.3 %
SHO SSNOI Growth
Consolidated SHO NOI $ 118,402 $ 182,209 $ 24,603 $ 17,999 $ 29,904 $ 30,478 $ 172,909 $ 230,686
Unconsolidated SHO NOI attributable to WELL (1)
3,387 7,679 7,958 5,078 6,956 7,097 18,301 19,854
SHO NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(6,285) (8,078) (10,612) (6,887) (6,458) (5,378) (23,355) (20,343)
SHO pro rata NOI (3)
115,504 181,810 21,949 16,190 30,402 32,197 167,855 230,197
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (138) (161) — 2 3 (12) (135) (171)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (17,602) (60,701) (16,630) (10,942) 57 (6,124) (34,175) (77,767)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(207) 16 159 764 (353) 655 (401) 1,435
Normalizing adjustment for government grants (8)
— (2,435) — — (4,978) — (4,978) (2,435)
Normalizing adjustment for casualty related expenses (9)
1,130 945 — — — — 1,130 945
Other normalizing adjustments (10)
184 — — — — — 184 —
SHO pro rata SSNOI (5)
$ 98,871 $ 119,474 $ 5,478 $ 6,014 $ 25,131 $ 26,716 $ 129,480 $ 152,204
SHO SSNOI growth 20.8 % 9.8 % 6.3 % 17.6 %
SHO SSNOI/Unit
Trailing four quarters' SSNOI (5)
$ 445,737 $ 19,181 $ 97,780 $ 562,698
Average units in service (11)
37,423 1,203 14,376 53,002
SSNOI/unit in USD $ 11,911 $ 15,944 $ 6,802 $ 10,617
SSNOI/unit in local currency (4)
£ 11,809 $ 8,665
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove revenues and NOI related to certain leasehold properties. See page 15 for more information .
(3) Represents SHO revenues/NOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See pages 13 & 20 for more information.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.2738 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.3501.
(5) Represents SS SHO revenues/SSNOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 20 for more information.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
(8) Represents normalizing adjustment related to amounts recognized related to the Health and Human Services Provider Relief Fund in the United States and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
(9) Represents normalizing adjustment related to casualty related expenses net of any insurance reimbursements.
(10) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than .50% of SSNOI growth.
(11) Represents average units in service for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
21
Forward-Looking Statement and Risk Factors
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This document contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “pro forma,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower’s actual results to differ materially from Welltower’s expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower’s ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters and other acts of God affecting Welltower’s properties; Welltower’s ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower’s ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower’s properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower’s financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates; Welltower’s ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower’s reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Additional Information
The information in this supplemental information package should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our earnings press release d ated November 7, 2022 an d other information filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Supplemental Reporting Measures and reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are an integral part of the information presented herein.
You can access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act at www.welltower.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You can also review these SEC filings and other information by accessing the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors.” Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the SEC. The information on or connected to our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of, or incorporated into this supplemental information package.
About Welltower
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The Company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower™, a REIT, owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available at www.welltower.com.
22
