---
doc_type: sec_filing
source: sec_edgar
ticker: WELL
accession_number: 0000766704-23-000015
form_type: 8-K
items:
- '2.02'
- '9.01'
filed_date: '2023-05-02'
filing_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670423000015/well-20230502.htm
press_release_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670423000015/a1q23earningsrelease991.htm
tickers:
- WELL
themes:
- demographic_demand_tailwinds
ingestion_date: '2026-07-19'
extraction_source: v3 SEC filings pipeline (sec_filings.py); EDGAR; claude-extracted
  themes
---

# WELL 8-K — filed 2023-05-02

## 8-K body

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 2, 2023
Welltower Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 1-8923 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction
of Incorporation) (Commission
File Number) (IRS Employer
Identification No.)
4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: ( 419 ) 247-2800
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock, $1.00 par value per share WELL New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.800% Notes due 2028 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/28 New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.500% Notes due 2034 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/34 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 2, 2023 , Welltower Inc. (the “Company”) issued a press release that announced operating results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2023. The press release refers to a supplemental information package that is available on the Company's website (www.welltower.com), free of charge. Copies of the press release and supplemental information package have been furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report, and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press release of Welltower Inc. dated May 2, 2023
99.2 Welltower Inc. Supplemental Information Package for the quarter ended March 31, 2023.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
WELLTOWER INC.
By: /s/ Matthew McQueen
Name: Matthew McQueen
Title: Executive Vice President – General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
Dated: May 2, 2023

## Exhibit EX-99.1

EX-99.1
2
a1q23earningsrelease991.htm
EX-99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 2, 2023
For more information contact:
Tim McHugh (419) 247-2800
Welltower Reports First Quarter 2023 Results
Toledo, Ohio, May 2, 2023 ….. Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL ) today announced results for the quarter ended March 31, 2023.
Recent Highlights
• Reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.05 per diluted share
• Reported normalized funds from operations ("FFO") attributable to common stockholders of $0.85 per diluted share
• Reported total portfolio year-over-year same store NOI ("SSNOI") growth of 11.0%, driven by SSNOI growth in our Seniors Housing Operating ("SHO") portfolio of 23.4%
• SHO portfolio year-over-year same store ("SS") revenue increased 10.0% in the first quarter, driven by 240 basis points ("bps") of year-over-year average occupancy growth and Revenue Per Occupied Room ("RevPOR") growth of 6.8%
• SHO portfolio year-over-year SSNOI margin expanded by 240 bps driven primarily by strong RevPOR growth which continued to meaningfully outpace Expense per Occupied Room ("ExpPOR") growth
• Completed approximately $785 million of pro rata gross investments during the first quarter
• As of March 31, 2023, we had approximately $4.6 billion of available liquidity inclusive of $0.6 billion of available cash and restricted cash and full capacity under $4.0 billion line of credit
• Announced the appointment of Jerry Davis, a former multifamily executive with 33 years of industry experience, as a Strategic Advisor
• Revised full year 2023 net income attributable to common stockholders outlook to a range of $0.57 to $0.72 per diluted share as compared to previous guidance of $0.57 to $0.75 per diluted share. Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders guidance has been revised to a range of $3.39 to $3.54 per diluted share as compared to previous guidance of $3.35 to $3.53 per diluted share
• In recognition of our leading environmental efforts, earned the 2023 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year Award for the fifth consecutive year and received recognition at the level of Sustained Excellence, the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA's) highest honor in the ENERGY STAR program, for the third consecutive year
Capital Activity and Liquidity During the quarter, net debt to consolidated enterprise value improved to 28.2% at March 31, 2023 from 29.5% at December 31, 2022. Through May 1, 2023, we sourc ed over $1.0 billion of attractively priced capital, including debt, equity, and proceeds from dispositions and loan payoffs, to fund accretive capital deployment opportunities and to further strengthen our already robust liquidity position. In March 2023, we entered into a one-year interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $350 million. The interest rate swap fixes the underlying one month term SOFR variable interest rate for a fixed rate of 4.385% on our $1.0 billion USD unsecured term loan maturing July 19, 2026.
Notable Investment Activity Completed During the Quarter
In the first quarter, we completed $785 million of pro rata gross investments, including $529 million in acquisitions and loan funding and $257 million in development funding. We opened four development projects for an aggregate pro rata investment amount of $57 million. Additionally, during the quarter we completed pro rata property dispositions and loan payoffs of $92 million.
Outpatient Medical Acquisitions During the quarter, we acquired 29 medical office buildings totaling 1.3 million rentable square feet across multiple transactions for $348 million, representing an initial yield of 6.9%. These acquisitions include the $78 million purchase of a 174,000 square foot medical office building strategically located in Washington D.C., along K Street's prime medical office corridor, with 82% current occupancy and an initial yield of 6.6%.
U.K. Seniors Housing Acquisition During the quarter, we acquired a portfolio of care homes located in Northern Ireland for $75 million. The communities will be operated by Healthcare Ireland under a new triple-net master lease.
Integra Healthcare Properties Transition As part of the previously announced transition and sale of 147 skilled nursing facilities operated by ProMedica to Integra Healthcare Properties, in January 2023 we sold to Integra a 15% interest in 31 skilled nursing assets
Page 1 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
for approximately $74 million. The transaction represents the second tranche in the formation of an 85/15 joint venture between Welltower and Integra, with the remaining tranches expected to close later in the year.
Other Transactions Additionally during the first quarter, we acquired two seniors housing communities for $20 million. We also received $13 million in aggregate proceeds from loan payoffs and the disposition of two seniors housing properties.
Notable Investment Activity Subsequent to Quarter End
Genesis HealthCare As disclosed on March 2, 2021 as part of the substantial exit of the Genesis HealthCare operating relationship, we leased a portfolio of seven facilities which were subleased to Genesis HealthCare and subject to a purchase option held by us. As part of the March 2021 transaction, we entered into a forward sale agreement for the seven properties valued at approximately $182 million which was expected to close when our purchase option became exercisable. In the second quarter of 2021, we transitioned the sublease from Genesis HealthCare to Complete Care Management. On May 1, 2023, we closed on the purchase option and simultaneously effectuated the forward sale agreement to sell the properties to a tri-party joint venture with Aurora Health Network, Peace Capital (an affiliate of Complete Care Management) and us. The transactions resulted in net cash proceeds of approximately $104 million after our retained interest in the properties.
D ividend On May 2, 2023, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended March 31, 2023 of $0.61 per share. This dividend, which will be paid on May 23, 2023 to stockholders of record as of May 16, 2023, will be our 208th consecutive quarterly cash dividend. The declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends remains subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors.
Outlook for 2023 Net income attributable to common stockholders guidance has been revised to a range of $0.57 to $0.72 per diluted share from the previous range of $0.57 to $0.75 per diluted share, primarily due to change in projected net gains/losses/impairments and depreciation and amortization. We increased the midpoint of the guidance range of full year normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders to a range of $3.39 to $3.54 per diluted share from the previous range of $3.35 to $3.53 per diluted share. In preparing our guidance, we have updated or confirmed the following assumptions:
• Same Store NOI: We continue to expect average blended SSNOI growth of 9% to 13%, which is comprised of the following components:
◦ Seniors Housing Operating approximately 17% to 24%
◦ Seniors Housing Triple-net approximately 1% to 3%
◦ Outpatient Medical approximately 2% to 3%
◦ Long-Term/Post-Acute Care approximately 3% to 4%
• Investments: Our earnings guidance includes only those acquisitions closed or announced to date. Furthermore, no transitions or restructures beyond those announced to date are included.
• Impact of Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Rates: Increased interest rates on floating rate debt and a strengthening U.S. Dollar relative to the British Pound and Canadian Dollar are expected to reduce 2023 normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders by approximately $0.19 per diluted share versus 2022.
• General and Administrative Expenses: We anticipate general and administrative expenses to be approximately $166 million to $174 million and stock-based compensation expense to be approximately $31 million.
• Development: We anticipate funding an additional $649 million of development in 2023 relating to projects underway on March 31, 2023.
• Dispositions: We expect pro rata disposition proceeds of $393 million at a blended yield of 5.7% in the next twelve months. This includes approximately $382 million from expected property sales and $10 million of expected proceeds from loan repayments.
• Provider Relief Funds: Our initial 2023 earnings guidance did not include the recognition of any Provider Relief Funds or other government grants. During the quarter ended March 31, 2023, we recognized approximately $2 million at our share relating to Provider Relief Funds and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada. Our updated guidance does not include any additional funds in 2023. During the full year 2022, we recognized approximately $35 million at our share relating to these programs.
Our guidance does not include any additional investments, dispositions or capital transactions beyond those we have announced, nor any other expenses, impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional normalizing items. Please see the Supplemental Reporting Measures section for further discussion and our definition of normalized FFO and SSNOI and Exhibit 3 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders. We will provide additional detail regarding our 2023 outlook and assumptions on the first quarter 2023 conference call.
Conference Call Information We have scheduled a conference call on Wednesday, May 3, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss our first quarter 2023 results, industry trends and portfolio performance. Telephone access will be available by dialing (888) 340-5024 or (646) 960-0135 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours
Page 2 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
after completion of the call through May 10, 2023. To access the rebroadcast, dial (800) 770-2030 or (647) 362-9199 (international). The conference ID number is 8230248. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.welltower.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days.
Supplemental Reporting Measures We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders ("NICS"), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider funds from operations ("FFO"), normalized FFO, net operating income ("NOI"), same store NOI ("SSNOI"), revenue per occupied room ("RevPOR"), same store RevPOR ("SS RevPOR"), expense per occupied room ("ExpPOR") and same store ExpPOR ("SS ExpPOR") to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. These supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO attributable to common stockholders, as defined by NAREIT, means net income attributable to common stockholders, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairments of depreciable assets, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests. Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders represents FFO attributable to common stockholders adjusted for certain items detailed in Exhibit 2. We believe that normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance because investors and equity analysts may use this measure to compare the operating performance of Welltower between periods or as compared to other REITs or other companies on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated and/or incalculable items.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and unallocable to the properties, or transaction costs. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties. No reconciliation of the forecasted range for SSNOI on a combined basis or by property type is included in this release because we are unable to quantify certain amounts that would be required to be included in the comparable GAAP financial measure without unreasonable efforts, and we believe such reconciliation would imply a degree of precision that could be confusing or misleading to investors.
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata version of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement, divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population, which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties
Page 3 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
used for SSNOI and includes any revenue or expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios which include net debt to consolidated enterprise value, indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Net debt is defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Consolidated enterprise value represents the sum of net debt, the fair market value of our common stock and noncontrolling interests.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and ratings agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, they are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. The supplemental reporting measures do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the exhibits for reconciliations of supplemental reporting measures and the supplemental information package for the quarter ended March 31, 2023, which is available on Welltower's website (www.welltower.com), for information and reconciliations of additional supplemental reporting measures.
About Welltower Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), a real estate investment trust ("REIT") and S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. Welltower invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower, owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available at www.welltower.com. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors”. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this press release, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This press release contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words s uch as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “pro forma,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements, including statements related to Funds From Operations guidance, are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower’s actual results to differ materially from Welltower’s expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower’s ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters and other acts of God affecting Welltower’s properties; Welltower’s ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower’s ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower’s properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower’s financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates; Welltower’s ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower’s reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 4 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
Welltower Inc.
Financial Exhibits
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(in thousands)
March 31,
2023 2022
Assets
Real estate investments:
Land and land improvements $ 4,324,541 $ 4,030,150
Buildings and improvements 34,161,466 31,724,328
Acquired lease intangibles 1,990,830 1,844,780
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 215,583 199,490
Construction in progress 1,121,446 717,657
Less accumulated depreciation and intangible amortization (8,417,151) (7,215,622)
Net real property owned 33,396,715 31,300,783
Right of use assets, net 322,896 404,689
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 954,156 1,003,136
Net real estate investments 34,673,767 32,708,608
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 1,596,413 1,138,526
Goodwill 68,321 68,321
Cash and cash equivalents 571,902 301,089
Restricted cash 66,894 65,954
Straight-line rent receivable 357,359 385,639
Receivables and other assets 1,159,233 804,316
Total other assets 3,820,122 2,763,845
Total assets $ 38,493,889 $ 35,472,453
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ 299,968
Senior unsecured notes 12,486,229 12,136,760
Secured debt 2,474,837 2,104,945
Lease liabilities 415,169 548,999
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 1,521,499 1,203,755
Total liabilities 16,897,734 16,294,427
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 392,195 445,960
Equity:
Common stock 497,928 455,376
Capital in excess of par value 27,160,014 23,620,112
Treasury stock (112,925) (112,518)
Cumulative net income 8,830,623 8,725,661
Cumulative dividends (15,815,926) (14,654,583)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (111,559) (138,472)
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’ equity 20,448,155 17,895,576
Noncontrolling interests 755,805 836,490
Total equity 21,203,960 18,732,066
Total liabilities and equity $ 38,493,889 $ 35,472,453
Page 5 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
Three Months Ended
March 31,
2023 2022
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 1,131,685 $ 994,335
Rental income 384,059 356,390
Interest income 36,405 38,994
Other income 8,580 5,985
Total revenues 1,560,729 1,395,704
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 957,753 853,669
Depreciation and amortization 339,112 304,088
Interest expense 144,403 121,696
General and administrative expenses 44,371 37,706
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 930 2,578
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 5 (12)
Provision for loan losses, net 777 (804)
Impairment of assets 12,629 —
Other expenses 22,745 26,069
Total expenses 1,522,725 1,344,990
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
and other items 38,004 50,714
Income tax (expense) benefit (3,045) (5,013)
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (7,071) (2,884)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 747 22,934
Income (loss) from continuing operations 28,635 65,751
Net income (loss) 28,635 65,751
Less:
Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1)
2,962 3,826
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 25,673 $ 61,925
Average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 492,061 447,379
Diluted 494,494 449,802
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:
Basic $ 0.05 $ 0.14
Diluted (2)
$ 0.05 $ 0.14
Common dividends per share $ 0.61 $ 0.61
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
(2) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP Units and DownREIT Units.
Page 6 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
FFO Reconciliations Exhibit 1
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2023 2022
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 25,673 $ 61,925
Depreciation and amortization 339,112 304,088
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions, net 11,882 (22,934)
Noncontrolling interests (1)
(13,327) (14,753)
Unconsolidated entities (2)
22,722 19,309
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders 386,062 347,635
Normalizing items, net (3)
33,471 20,647
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 419,533 $ 368,282
Average diluted common shares outstanding 494,494 449,802
Per diluted share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income (loss) (4)
$ 0.05 $ 0.14
NAREIT FFO $ 0.78 $ 0.77
Normalized FFO $ 0.85 $ 0.82
Normalized FFO Payout Ratio:
Dividends per common share $ 0.61 $ 0.61
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders per share $ 0.85 $ 0.82
Normalized FFO payout ratio 72 % 74 %
Other items: (5)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (33,384) $ (20,014)
Non-cash interest expenses (6)
5,878 4,721
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements, and lease commissions (36,913) (32,466)
Stock-based compensation 9,124 7,445
(1) Represents noncontrolling interests' share of net FFO adjustments.
(2) Represents Welltower's share of net FFO adjustments from unconsolidated entities.
(3) See Exhibit 2.
(4) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
(5) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and including Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(6) Excludes normalized foreign currency loss (gain) (see Exhibit 2).
Page 7 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
Normalizing Items Exhibit 2
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2023 2022
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net $ 930 (1) $ 2,578
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 5 (2) (12)
Provision for loan losses, net 777 (3) (804)
Income tax benefits (246) (4) —
Other expenses 22,745 (5) 26,069
Lease termination and leasehold interest adjustment — (8,457)
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 4,487 (6) 13
Foreign currency loss (gain) (227) (7) —
Normalizing items attributable to noncontrolling interests and unconsolidated entities, net 5,000 (8) 1,260
Net normalizing items $ 33,471 $ 20,647
Average diluted common shares outstanding 494,494 449,802
Net normalizing items per diluted share $ 0.07 $ 0.05
(1) Primarily related to mark-to-market of the equity warrants received as part of the Safanad/HC-One transaction that closed in 2021.
(2) Primarily related to the extinguishment of secured debt.
(3) Primarily related to reserves for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard.
(4) Primarily related to the release of valuation allowances.
(5) Primarily related to non-capitalizable transaction costs and an accrual for non-capitalizable promotes.
(6) Primarily relates to casualty losses net of any insurance recoveries.
(7) Primarily relates to foreign currency gains and losses related to accrued interest on intercompany loans and third party debt denominated in a foreign currency.
(8) Primarily related to hypothetical liquidation at book value adjustments related to in substance real estate investments.
Outlook Reconciliation: Year Ending December 31, 2023 Exhibit 3
(in millions, except per share data) Prior Outlook Current Outlook
Low High Low High
FFO Reconciliation:
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 280 $ 369 $ 283 $ 358
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions, net (1,2)
(30) (30) (19) (19)
Depreciation and amortization (1)
1,402 1,402 1,391 1,391
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders 1,652 1,741 1,655 1,730
Normalizing items, net (1,3)
— — 33 33
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 1,652 $ 1,741 $ 1,688 $ 1,763
Diluted per share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income $ 0.57 $ 0.75 $ 0.57 $ 0.72
NAREIT FFO $ 3.35 $ 3.53 $ 3.32 $ 3.47
Normalized FFO $ 3.35 $ 3.53 $ 3.39 $ 3.54
Other items: (1)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (126) $ (126) $ (126) $ (126)
Non-cash interest expenses 23 23 24 24
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements, and lease commissions (172) (172) (174) (174)
Stock-based compensation 30 30 33 33
(1) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(2) Includes estimated gains on projected dispositions.
(3) See Exhibit 2.
Page 8 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
SSNOI Reconciliation Exhibit 4
(in thousands) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2023 2022 % growth
Net income (loss) $ 28,635 $ 65,751
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (747) (22,934)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 7,071 2,884
Income tax expense (benefit) 3,045 5,013
Other expenses 22,745 26,069
Impairment of assets 12,629 —
Provision for loan losses, net 777 (804)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 5 (12)
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 930 2,578
General and administrative expenses 44,371 37,706
Depreciation and amortization 339,112 304,088
Interest expense 144,403 121,696
Consolidated NOI 602,976 542,035
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
26,354 20,142
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(25,057) (34,999)
Pro rata NOI 604,273 527,178
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties
(19,694) (13,669)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties
(144,558) (106,506)
Currency and ownership adjustments (3)
(576) (4,787)
Normalizing adjustments, net (4)
4,558 (2,123)
Same Store NOI (SSNOI) $ 444,003 $ 400,093 11.0%
Seniors Housing Operating 216,304 175,325 23.4%
Seniors Housing Triple-net 94,408 94,203 0.2%
Outpatient Medical 109,983 108,201 1.6%
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 23,308 22,364 4.2%
Total SSNOI
$ 444,003 $ 400,093 11.0%
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove NOI related to certain leasehold properties.
(3) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages and foreign currency exchange rates for properties in the U.K. and Canada.
(4) Includes other adjustments described in the accompanying Supplement.
Page 9 of 10
1Q23 Earnings Release May 2, 2023
Reconciliation of SHO SS RevPOR Growth Exhibit 5
(in thousands except SS RevPOR) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2023 2022
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 1,136,681 $ 996,612
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
59,580 49,108
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(52,517) (75,741)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
1,143,744 969,979
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (2,348) (2,439)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (173,762) (87,730)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(2,411) (1,877)
SHO SS revenues (5)
$ 965,223 $ 877,933
Average occupied units/month (6)
59,221 57,508
SHO SS RevPOR (7)
$ 5,508 $ 5,159
SS RevPOR YOY growth 6.8 %
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove revenues related to certain leasehold properties.
(3) Represents SHO revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent pro perty ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.37 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.20.
(5) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
Net Debt to Consolidated Enterprise Value Exhibit 6
(in thousands, except share price) Three Months Ended
March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Common shares outstanding 496,295 490,509
Period end share price $ 71.69 $ 65.55
Common equity market capitalization $ 35,579,389 $ 32,152,865
Total debt (1)
$ 15,074,320 $ 14,661,552
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (638,796) (722,292)
Net debt $ 14,435,524 $ 13,939,260
Noncontrolling interests (2)
1,148,000 1,099,182
Consolidated enterprise value $ 51,162,913 $ 47,191,307
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value 28.2 % 29.5 %
(1) Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and lease liabilities related to finance leases, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. Operating lease liabilities related to the ASC 842 adoption are excluded.
(2) Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets.
Page 10 of 10

## Exhibit EX-99.2

EX-99.2
3
a1q23supplement992.htm
EX-99.2
Table of Contents
Overview
1
Portfolio
2
Investment
6
Financial
11
Glossary
16
Supplemental Reporting Measures
17
Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors
21
Overview
(dollars and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Portfolio Composition (1)
Beds/Unit Mix
Average Age Properties Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care
Seniors Housing Operating 17 959 113,277 16,917 44,456 36,094 14,942 868
Seniors Housing Triple-net 17 373 31,041 — 5,436 14,731 9,123 1,751
Outpatient Medical 17 435 25,864,057 (2) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 31 241 30,507 — — 824 10 29,673
Total 19 2,008
NOI Performance
Same Store (3)
In-Place Portfolio (4)
Properties 1Q22 NOI 1Q23 NOI % Change Properties Annualized
In-Place NOI % of Total
Seniors Housing Operating 746 $ 175,325 $ 216,304 23.4 % 882 $ 959,844 45.9 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 339 94,203 94,408 0.2 % 366 398,356 19.0 %
Outpatient Medical 371 108,201 109,983 1.6 % 419 489,400 23.4 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 76 22,364 23,308 4.2 % 232 245,624 11.7 %
Total 1,532 $ 400,093 $ 444,003 11.0 % 1,899 $ 2,093,224 100.0 %
Portfolio Performance Facility Revenue Mix
Stable Portfolio (5)
Occupancy
EBITDAR Coverage (6)
EBITDARM Coverage (6)
Private Pay Medicaid Medicare
Other Government (7)
Seniors Housing Operating 79.8 % n/a n/a 97.2 % 1.2 % 0.6 % 1.0 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 79.5 % 0.86 1.17 91.2 % 3.4 % 0.7 % 4.7 %
Outpatient Medical 94.0 % n/a n/a 100.0 % — — —
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 82.2 % 1.33 1.61 26.0 % 39.9 % 34.1 % — %
Total 0.95 1.25 94.0 % 2.9 % 2.0 % 1.1 %
Notes:
(1) Includes land parcels and properties under development.
(2) Indicates the total square footage of Outpatient Medical properties.
(3) See pages 18 and 19 for reconciliation.
(4) Excludes land parcels, loans, developments and investments held for sale. See page 18 for reconciliation.
(5) Data as of March 31, 2023 for Seniors Housing Operating and Outpatient Medical and December 31, 2022 for remaining asset types.
(6) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics.
(7) Represents various federal and local reimbursement programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
1
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
In-Place NOI Diversification (1)
By Partner: Total Properties Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient
Medical Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care Total % of Total
Integra Healthcare Properties 147 $ — $ — $ — $ 152,088 $ 152,088 7.3 %
Sunrise Senior Living 127 139,348 — — — 139,348 6.7 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 74 33,712 44,108 — — 77,820 3.7 %
Cogir Management Corporation 49 76,816 — — — 76,816 3.7 %
Belmont Village 21 71,136 — — — 71,136 3.4 %
Atria Senior Living 92 70,972 — — — 70,972 3.4 %
Avery Healthcare 62 4,664 64,748 — — 69,412 3.3 %
Oakmont Management Group 33 69,012 — — — 69,012 3.3 %
Brookdale Senior Living 85 (648) 66,148 — — 65,500 3.1 %
Sagora Senior Living 40 39,932 15,476 — — 55,408 2.6 %
Remaining 1,169 454,900 207,876 489,400 93,536 1,245,712 59.5 %
Total 1,899 $ 959,844 $ 398,356 $ 489,400 $ 245,624 $ 2,093,224 100.0 %
By Country:
United States 1,612 $ 767,920 $ 319,828 $ 489,400 $ 238,824 $ 1,815,972 86.8 %
United Kingdom 133 66,444 75,064 — — 141,508 6.8 %
Canada 154 125,480 3,464 — 6,800 135,744 6.4 %
Total 1,899 $ 959,844 $ 398,356 $ 489,400 $ 245,624 $ 2,093,224 100.0 %
By MSA:
Los Angeles 72 $ 64,776 $ 19,896 $ 32,860 $ — $ 117,532 5.6 %
New York / New Jersey 84 56,744 13,188 36,872 5,960 112,764 5.4 %
Washington D.C. 58 41,048 8,000 26,132 32,008 107,188 5.1 %
Dallas 61 43,528 4,128 28,748 4,384 80,788 3.9 %
Philadelphia 46 13,708 5,188 18,380 28,612 65,888 3.1 %
Greater London 53 40,060 16,136 — — 56,196 2.7 %
San Diego 19 19,956 6,860 12,796 2,984 42,596 2.0 %
San Francisco 23 29,868 10,652 1,896 — 42,416 2.0 %
Houston 36 6,292 2,320 30,880 — 39,492 1.9 %
Chicago 46 13,200 11,652 7,688 5,784 38,324 1.8 %
Charlotte 26 1,088 10,552 22,936 — 34,576 1.7 %
Montréal 24 32,948 — — — 32,948 1.6 %
Raleigh 13 7,232 18,904 3,772 — 29,908 1.4 %
Minneapolis 20 (820) 16,984 13,552 — 29,716 1.4 %
Seattle 31 8,664 3,540 14,772 — 26,976 1.3 %
Indianapolis 17 3,656 13,616 556 8,924 26,752 1.3 %
Boston 25 18,260 5,288 2,732 — 26,280 1.3 %
Toronto 25 26,100 — — — 26,100 1.2 %
Miami 36 160 1,364 16,232 6,684 24,440 1.2 %
Kansas City 24 7,092 9,812 700 6,100 23,704 1.1 %
Remaining 1,160 526,284 220,276 217,896 144,184 1,108,640 53.0 %
Total 1,899 $ 959,844 $ 398,356 $ 489,400 $ 245,624 $ 2,093,224 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Represents current quarter annualized In-Place NOI. See page 18 for reconciliation.
2
Portfolio
(dollars, units and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Seniors Housing Operating
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23
Properties 805 836 870 882 885
Units 80,402 84,782 87,375 88,783 89,240
Total occupancy 76.3 % 77.1 % 78.0 % 78.3 % 79.0 %
Total revenues $ 969,979 $ 1,000,962 $ 1,061,753 $ 1,095,146 $ 1,143,744
Operating expenses 774,936 777,178 831,556 866,482 894,981
NOI $ 195,043 $ 223,784 $ 230,197 $ 228,664 $ 248,763
NOI margin 20.1 % 22.4 % 21.7 % 20.9 % 21.7 %
Recurring cap-ex $ 23,325 $ 26,806 $ 31,513 $ 36,923 $ 26,848
Other cap-ex $ 45,988 $ 57,225 $ 56,878 $ 75,545 $ 45,557
Same Store Performance (2)
1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23
Properties 746 746 746 746 746
Occupancy 77.0 % 77.8 % 78.8 % 79.3 % 79.4 %
Same store revenues $ 878,092 $ 899,199 $ 925,588 $ 948,953 $ 965,881
Compensation 414,013 423,458 434,039 442,344 446,184
Utilities 45,952 40,650 49,536 48,561 52,371
Food 34,138 37,265 38,111 40,507 38,118
Repairs and maintenance 28,460 28,226 28,577 28,157 28,752
Property taxes 35,837 35,306 35,216 31,158 35,299
All other 144,367 144,657 146,228 154,075 148,853
Same store operating expenses 702,767 709,562 731,707 744,802 749,577
Same store NOI $ 175,325 $ 189,637 $ 193,881 $ 204,151 $ 216,304
Same store NOI margin % 20.0 % 21.1 % 20.9 % 21.5 % 22.4 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 23.4 %
Year over year revenue growth rate 10.0 %
Partners (3)
Properties Pro Rata Units
Welltower Ownership % (4)
Core Markets 1Q23 NOI % of Total
Sunrise Senior Living 127 10,139 100.0 % Southern California $ 26,015 10.5 %
Cogir Management Corporation 49 7,168 89.1 % Northern California 17,325 7.0 %
Belmont Village 21 2,804 95.0 % New York / New Jersey 13,658 5.5 %
Atria Senior Living 92 10,924 100.0 % Greater London, UK 10,045 4.0 %
Oakmont Management Group 33 4,040 100.0 % Washington D.C. 10,081 4.1 %
Revera 78 7,262 75.0 % Montréal, QC 8,341 3.4 %
Legend Senior Living 37 2,809 93.3 % Toronto, ON 6,574 2.6 %
Brandywine Living 29 2,704 99.6 % Boston, MA 4,475 1.8 %
Sagora Senior Living 18 2,884 97.5 % Seattle, WA 2,597 1.0 %
Clover 36 3,950 90.4 % Vancouver, BC 2,463 1.0 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 42 4,242 98.5 % Birmingham, UK 2,030 0.8 %
Signature UK 33 2,401 82.8 % Manchester, UK 1,730 0.7 %
Care UK 26 1,806 100.0 % Ottawa, ON 1,306 0.5 %
Pegasus 35 3,791 99.0 % Core Markets 106,640 42.9 %
Remaining 226 22,228 All Other 142,123 57.1 %
Total 882 89,152 Total $ 248,763 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Properties, units and occupancy exclude land parcels and properties under development.
(2) See pages 18 and 19 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents partner concentration based on annualized In Place NOI for the quarter ended March 31, 2023. Property count and pro rata units represent the In Place portfolio.
(4) Welltower ownership percentage weighted based on In-Place NOI. See page 18 for reconciliation.
3
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Payment Coverage Stratification
EBITDARM Coverage (1)
EBITDAR Coverage (1)
% of In-Place NOI Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases
< 0.85x 1.7 % 0.1 % 1.8 % 12 6 4.9 % 0.5 % 5.4 % 11 12
0.85x - 0.95x 0.6 % — % 0.6 % 16 1 4.0 % 0.8 % 4.8 % 11 5
0.95x - 1.05x 2.3 % — % 2.3 % 8 3 3.2 % — % 3.2 % 6 1
1.05x - 1.15x 2.3 % 1.2 % 3.5 % 12 5 3.3 % — % 3.3 % 12 2
1.15x - 1.25x 3.2 % — % 3.2 % 6 1 1.1 % — % 1.1 % 15 2
1.25x - 1.35x 3.3 % — % 3.3 % 12 2 — % 1.1 % 1.1 % 9 1
> 1.35x 3.1 % 2.6 % 5.7 % 11 9 — % 1.5 % 1.5 % 13 4
Total 16.5 % 3.9 % 20.4 % 11 27 16.5 % 3.9 % 20.4 % 11 27
Revenue and Lease Maturity (2)
Rental Income
Year Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term / Post-Acute Care Interest
Income Total
Revenues % of Total
2023 $ — $ 53,058 $ 2,159 $ 10,833 $ 66,050 5.0 %
2024 13,088 59,213 — 23,732 96,033 7.3 %
2025 5,667 41,781 — 10,670 58,118 4.4 %
2026 36,245 44,938 9,147 95,375 185,705 14.1 %
2027 — 40,456 1,182 6,839 48,477 3.7 %
2028 5,237 32,383 5,246 374 43,240 3.3 %
2029 4,091 31,869 — 429 36,389 2.8 %
2030 40,895 34,526 28,320 144 103,885 7.9 %
2031 6,390 44,935 4,310 233 55,868 4.2 %
2032 58,026 35,265 15,338 — 108,629 8.3 %
Thereafter 204,854 110,191 194,960 2,457 512,462 39.0 %
$ 374,493 $ 528,615 $ 260,662 $ 151,086 $ 1,314,856 100.0 %
Weighted Avg Maturity Years 10 6 15 3 9
Notes:
(1) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics as of December 31, 2022 for stable portfolio only. Agreements included represent 66% of total Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care In-Place NOI. See page 18 for a reconciliation. Agreements with mixed units use the predominant type based on investment balance.
(2) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non cash income. Interest income represents contractual rate of interest for loans, net of collectability reserves if applicable.
4
Portfolio
(dollars, square feet and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands except per square feet)
Outpatient Medical
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23
Properties 379 384 386 389 419
Square feet 18,079,918 18,452,459 18,665,903 18,844,516 20,188,159
Occupancy 94.7 % 94.5 % 94.5 % 94.2 % 94.0 %
Total revenues $ 163,597 $ 166,220 $ 171,990 $ 176,816 $ 185,190
Operating expenses 50,599 51,177 53,684 53,259 58,977
NOI $ 112,998 $ 115,043 $ 118,306 $ 123,557 $ 126,213
NOI margin 69.1 % 69.2 % 68.8 % 69.9 % 68.2 %
Revenues per square foot $ 36.19 $ 36.03 $ 37.15 $ 37.53 $ 36.69
NOI per square foot $ 25.00 $ 24.94 $ 25.55 $ 26.23 $ 25.01
Recurring cap-ex $ 9,141 $ 12,752 $ 13,470 $ 25,200 $ 10,666
Other cap-ex $ 1,594 $ 2,303 $ 2,472 $ 5,633 $ 5,118
Same Store Performance (2)
1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23
Properties 371 371 371 371 371
Occupancy 94.7 % 94.9 % 94.9 % 95.0 % 94.9 %
Same store revenues $ 156,708 $ 156,579 $ 157,591 $ 158,367 $ 162,602
Same store operating expenses 48,507 48,833 49,747 48,737 52,619
Same store NOI $ 108,201 $ 107,746 $ 107,844 $ 109,630 $ 109,983
NOI margin 69.0 % 68.8 % 68.4 % 69.2 % 67.6 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 1.6 %
Portfolio Diversification
by Tenant (3)
Rental Income % of Total Quality Indicators
Kelsey-Seybold $ 29,230 5.5 %
Health system affiliated properties as % of NOI (3)
88.1 %
Common Spirit Health 19,712 3.7 %
Health system affiliated tenants as % of rental income (3)
60.2 %
Novant Health 15,497 2.9 %
Retention (trailing twelve months) (3)
91.2 %
Summit Health 14,313 2.7 %
In-house managed properties as % of square feet (3,4)
86.0 %
Providence Health & Services 14,050 2.7 %
Average remaining lease term (years) (3)
6.4
Remaining portfolio 435,813 82.5 %
Average building size (square feet) (3)
59,877
Total $ 528,615 100.0 % Average age (years) 17
Expirations (3)
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Thereafter
Occupied square feet 1,916,594 2,007,400 1,452,230 1,700,306 1,465,101 10,445,519
% of occupied square feet 10.1 % 10.6 % 7.6 % 9.0 % 7.7 % 55.0 %
Notes:
(1) Property count, occupancy, square feet and per square foot metrics exclude properties under development and all land parcels. Per square foot amounts are annualized.
(2) Includes 371 same store properties representing 17,354,227 square feet. See pages 18 and 19 for reconciliation.
(3) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non cash income. Retention includes month-to-month tenants retained.
(4) Excludes tenant managed properties.
5
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Relationship Investment History
Detail of Acquisitions/JVs (1)
2019 2020 2021 2022 1Q23 19-23 Total
Count 27 12 35 27 11 127
Total $ 4,073,554 $ 910,217 $ 4,101,534 $ 2,785,739 $ 443,240 $ 12,314,284
Low 7,550 6,201 5,000 6,485 19,967 5,000
Median 38,800 48,490 45,157 66,074 78,250 48,793
High 1,250,000 235,387 1,576,642 389,149 140,172 1,576,642
Investment Timing
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (2)
Yield
Construction Conversions (3)
Year 1 Yield Dispositions and Loan Payoffs Yield
January $ 294,202 6.6 % $ 16,156 -2.3 % $ 90,072 9.9 %
February 153,624 8.0 % — — % — — %
March 80,706 11.2 % 58,674 2.9 % 2,000 — %
Total $ 528,532 7.7 % $ 74,830 1.8 % $ 92,072 9.7 %
Notes:
(1) Includes non-yielding asset acquisitions.
(2) Excludes land acquisitions and includes advances for non-real estate loans and excludes advances for development loans.
(3) Includes expansion conversions.
6
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership, except per bed / unit / square foot)
Gross Investment Activity
First Quarter 2023
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 2 191 units $ 104,539 $ 19,967
Seniors Housing Triple-net 8 612 units 122,217 74,797
Outpatient Medical 29 1,297,917 sf 268 348,476
Loan funding 85,292
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
39 528,532 7.7 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 43 6,830 units 149,299
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 191 units 5,953
Outpatient Medical 7 590,764 sf 65,401
Total development projects 51 220,653
Expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 2 160 units 3,342
Outpatient Medical 8 306,475 sf 32,950
Total expansion projects 10 36,292
Total development funding 61 256,945 6.8 %
Total gross investments 785,477 7.4 %
Dispositions and Loan Payoffs (4)
Seniors Housing Operating 1 18 units 18,889 323
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 57 units 35,088 2,000
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care — — beds — 74,279
Loan payoffs 15,470
Total dispositions and loan payoffs (5)
2 92,072 9.7 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ 693,405
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions and pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yield represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in-substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan payoffs and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
7
Investment
Property Acquisitions Detail
Operator / Health System Units Location MSA
Seniors Housing Operating
StoryPoint Senior Living 98 1695 Queens Gate Circle Cuyahoga Falls OH US Akron, OH
StoryPoint Senior Living 93 181 Applegrove Street Northeast Canton OH US Canton, OH
Total 191
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Healthcare Ireland Group 89 23 Bannview Road Banbridge Northern Ireland UK Newry and Banbridge
Healthcare Ireland Group 92 420 Crumlin Road Belfast Northern Ireland UK Belfast
Healthcare Ireland Group 66 250 Ballygomartin Road Belfast Northern Ireland UK Belfast
Healthcare Ireland Group 66 375 North Queen Street Belfast Northern Ireland UK Belfast
Healthcare Ireland Group 86 28 Broughshane Road Ballymena Northern Ireland UK Ballymena
Healthcare Ireland Group 66 2-6 Carncome Road Connor Northern Ireland UK Ballymena
Healthcare Ireland Group 79 299 Kingsway Dunmurry, Belfast Northern Ireland UK Belfast
Healthcare Ireland Group 68 36 Mill Road Newtownabbey Northern Ireland UK Belfast
Total 612
Outpatient Medical Sq. Feet
Fresenius Medical Care 15,163 497 Winn Way Decatur GA US Atlanta, GA
LifePoint Health 29,512 5604 Southwest Lee Boulevard Lawton OK US Lawton, OK
LifePoint Health 32,871 5606 Southwest Lee Boulevard Lawton OK US Lawton, OK
Bon Secours Mercy Health 59,609 2055 Hospital Drive Batavia OH US Cincinnati, OH
Community Health Systems 62,436 2200 Highway 61 North Vicksburg MS US Vicksburg, MS
Emory Healthcare 15,940 484 Irvin Court Decatur GA US Atlanta, GA
Emory Healthcare 21,707 465 Winn Way Decatur GA US Atlanta, GA
Emory Healthcare 16,090 495 Winn Way Decatur GA US Atlanta, GA
Emory Healthcare 17,828 500 Irvin Court Decatur GA US Atlanta, GA
Episcopal Health Foundation 10,053 2112 Regional Medical Drive Wharton TX US El Campo, TX
Franciscan Alliance 24,303 7847 Calumet Avenue Munster IN US Chicago, IL
Franciscan Alliance 120,218 7905 Calumet Avenue Munster IN US Chicago, IL
Green Clinic 112,035 1200 South Farmerville Street Ruston LA US Ruston, LA
Memorial Hermann Health System 9,845 2112 Regional Medical Drive Wharton TX US El Campo, TX
MultiCare Health System, Inc. 95,670 601 West 5th Avenue Spokane WA US Spokane, WA
Northside Hospital Health System 17,090 487 Winn Way Decatur GA US Atlanta, GA
Intermountain Healthcare 34,198 1159 East 200 North American Fork UT US Provo, UT
TMI Sports Medicine 21,234 3533 Matlock Road Arlington TX US Dallas, TX
Riverside Health System 14,031 110 Wimbledon Square Chesapeake VA US Virginia Beach, VA
St. Lukes Des Peres Hospital 62,485 1010 - 1090 Old Des Peres Road Des Peres MO US St. Louis, MO
UPMC 29,904 1824 Good Hope Road Enola PA US Harrisburg, PA
Southcoast Health 41,585 235 Hanover Street Fall River MA US Providence, RI
Unaffiliated 34,950 140 North Litchfield Road Goodyear AZ US Phoenix, AZ
Duly Health and Care 28,455 330 Madison Street Joliet IL US Chicago, IL
BJC Healthcare 20,808 5000 Manchester Avenue St. Louis MO US St. Louis, MO
BJC Healthcare 40,076 8888 Ladue Road St. Louis MO US St. Louis, MO
SSM Health Care 96,343 555 North New Ballas Road St. Louis MO US St. Louis, MO
Unaffiliated 173,853 2021 K Street Northwest Washington D.C. US Washington D.C.
UnitedHealth Group 39,625 3631 North Morrison Road Muncie IN US Muncie, IN
Total 1,297,917
(1) Please refer to the 1Q23 Welltower Facility Address List in the Investors section of our website for further details.
8
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Summary (1)
Unit Mix
Facility MSA Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Commitment Amount Balance at 03/31/23
Estimated Conversion (3)
Seniors Housing Operating
New York, NY 158 — — 71 87 $ 78,874 $ 74,244 2Q23
New York, NY 72 — — 36 36 39,800 31,260 2Q23
Barnstable Town, MA 120 120 — — — 31,135 31,135 2Q23
Dallas, TX 80 80 — — — 14,861 11,698 2Q23
Dallas, TX 11 11 — — — 5,511 3,018 2Q23
Charlotte, NC 328 328 — — — 59,233 48,236 2Q23 - 3Q23
Austin, TX 188 188 — — — 36,017 30,876 2Q23 - 3Q23
Hartford, CT 128 128 — — — 21,916 21,916 3Q23
Hartford, CT 122 122 — — — 20,531 20,531 3Q23
Boston, MA 167 — 91 48 28 72,790 43,896 4Q23
Phoenix, AZ 199 199 — — — 51,794 27,097 3Q23 - 4Q23
Naples, FL 188 188 — — — 54,370 14,510 4Q23 - 1Q24
Phoenix, AZ 204 204 — — — 50,496 26,232 4Q23 - 1Q24
Tampa, FL 206 206 — — — 49,685 13,209 4Q23 - 1Q24
Austin, TX 196 196 — — — 39,627 28,749 3Q23 - 1Q24
Houston, TX 130 130 — — — 31,100 18,575 4Q23 - 1Q24
Kansas City, MO 134 134 — — — 20,860 20,860 1Q24
Cincinnati, OH 122 122 — — — 16,385 7,811 1Q24
Washington D.C. 302 — 190 89 23 156,276 83,169 2Q24
Dallas, TX 72 72 — — — 20,427 4,760 3Q23 - 2Q24
Dallas, TX 52 52 — — — 16,035 6,832 1Q24 - 2Q24
Washington D.C. 137 — 10 90 37 115,127 43,060 3Q24
Killeen, TX 256 256 — — — 64,133 10,163 3Q24
Sacramento, CA 100 — — 70 30 48,486 6,549 3Q24
Burley, UK 70 — — 45 25 10,284 2,819 3Q24
Peterborough, UK 80 — — 52 28 9,669 2,740 3Q24
Boston, MA 160 — 82 37 41 148,590 78,849 4Q24
Sherman, TX 237 237 — — — 75,626 6,598 2Q24 - 4Q24
San Jose, CA 685 509 — 143 33 175,381 166,309 1Q25
San Jose, CA 158 — — 158 — 61,929 32,044 1Q25
Columbus, OH 409 409 — — — 82,069 16,596 2Q25
Little Rock, AR 283 283 — — — 13,893 4,736 3Q25
Sunrise Developments (2)
726 — — 422 304 190,048 122,870 2Q23 - 3Q24
Subtotal 6,480 4,174 373 1,261 672 1,882,958 1,061,947
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Raleigh, NC 191 — 151 40 — 131,118 103,302 2Q23
Outpatient Medical Rentable Square Ft Preleased % Health System Affiliation Commitment Amount Balance at 03/31/23 Estimated Conversion
Beaumont-Port Arthur, TX 33,000 100 % Yes 11,615 6,261 2Q23
Houston, TX 16,830 100 % Yes 8,847 5,050 2Q23
Houston, TX 178,446 100 % Yes 108,068 28,216 4Q23
Oklahoma City, OK 134,285 100 % Yes 89,928 69,457 4Q23
Houston, TX 121,368 100 % Yes 84,384 12,714 1Q24
Santa Fe, NM 90,000 100 % Yes 45,977 8,001 3Q24
Subtotal 573,929 348,819 129,699
Total Development Projects $ 2,362,895 $ 1,294,948
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in-substance real estate) and excludes redevelopments and expansion projects. Commitment amount represents current cash amount funded plus unfunded commitments to complete development but excludes capitalized interest.
(2) Relates to eight properties with a weighted-average ownership of 41 %.
(3) Estimated conversion ranges relate to projects to be delivered in phases.
9
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Funding Projections (1)
Projected Future Funding
Projects Beds / Units / Square Feet
Stable Yields (2)
2023 Funding Funding Thereafter Total Unfunded Commitments Committed Balances
Seniors Housing Operating 40 6,480 7.3 % $ 439,462 $ 381,549 $ 821,011 $ 1,882,958
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 191 9.3 % 27,816 — 27,816 131,118
Outpatient Medical 6 573,929 6.1 % 182,214 36,906 219,120 348,819
Total 47 7.2 % $ 649,492 $ 418,455 $ 1,067,947 $ 2,362,895
Development Project Conversion Estimates (1)
Quarterly Conversions Annual Conversions
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
1Q23 actual $ 57,473 0.4 % 6.7 % 2023 actual $ 57,473 0.4 % 6.7 %
2Q23 estimate 408,888 2.5 % 8.3 % 2023 estimate 911,144 2.4 % 7.3 %
3Q23 estimate 179,676 1.3 % 6.6 % 2024 estimate 1,118,479 0.6 % 7.3 %
4Q23 estimate 322,580 3.0 % 6.5 % 2025 estimate 333,272 4.9 % 6.8 %
1Q24 estimate 365,982 1.6 % 6.5 % Total $ 2,420,368 1.9 % 7.2 %
2Q24 estimate 213,885 (1.2) % 8.3 %
3Q24 estimate 314,396 0.8 % 7.2 %
4Q24 estimate 224,216 0.4 % 7.9 %
1Q25 estimate 237,310 6.5 % 6.5 %
2Q25 estimate 82,069 0.4 % 7.8 %
3Q25 estimate 13,893 4.1 % 6.9 %
Total $ 2,420,368 1.9 % 7.2 %
Unstabilized Properties
12/31/2022 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions 3/31/2023 Properties Beds / Units
Seniors Housing Operating 49 (4) 4 1 50 6,722
Seniors Housing Triple-net 17 (3) — 1 15 1,491
Total 66 (7) 4 2 65 8,213
Occupancy 12/31/2022 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions Progressions 3/31/2023 Properties
0% - 50% 28 — 4 2 (4) 30
50% - 70% 26 (1) — — (1) 24
70% + 12 (6) — — 5 11
Total 66 (7) 4 2 — 65
Occupancy 3/31/2023 Properties Months In Operation Revenues
% of Total Revenues (4)
Gross Investment Balance % of Total Gross Investment
0% - 50% 30 12 $ 44,429 0.7 % $ 873,779 2.1 %
50% - 70% 24 24 92,799 1.5 % 683,768 1.6 %
70% + 11 27 65,951 1.0 % 377,582 0.9 %
Total 65 11 $ 203,179 3.2 % $ 1,935,129 4.6 %
Notes:
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in-substance real estate) and excludes expansion projects. Projects expected to be delivered in phases over multiple quarters are reflected in the last quarter.
(2) Actual yields may vary.
(3) Includes expansion and development loan conversions.
(4) Percent of total revenues based on current quarter annualized pro rata total revenues on page 12.
10
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Components of NAV
Stabilized NOI Pro rata beds/units/square feet
Seniors Housing Operating (1)
$ 959,844 89,152 units
Seniors Housing Triple-net 398,356 27,489 units
Outpatient Medical 489,400 20,188,159 square feet
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 245,624 25,856 beds
Total In-Place NOI (2)
2,093,224
Incremental stabilized NOI (3)
107,489
Total stabilized NOI $ 2,200,713
Obligations
Lines of credit and commercial paper (4)
$ —
Senior unsecured notes (4)
12,615,399
Secured debt (4)
3,468,795
Financing lease liabilities 113,254
Total debt $ 16,197,448
Add (Subtract):
Other liabilities (assets), net (5)
$ 381,615
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (638,796)
Net obligations $ 15,940,267
Other Assets
Land parcels $ 235,255
Effective Interest Rate (8)
Real estate loans receivable (6)
1,512,496 11.0%
Non-real estate loans receivable (7)
258,917 11.6%
Joint venture real estate loans receivables (9)
267,699 5.9%
Other investments (10)
15,243
Property dispositions (11)
382,304
Development properties: (12)
Current balance 1,340,427
Unfunded commitments 1,278,675
Committed balances $ 2,619,102
Projected yield 7.2 %
Projected NOI $ 188,575
Common Shares Outstanding (13)
498,159
Notes:
(1) Includes $13,702,000 attributable to our proportional share of income from unconsolidated management company investments.
(2) See page 18 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents incremental NOI from Seniors Housing Operating unstabilized properties.
(4) Represents principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, deferred loan expenses or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet. Includes $1,051,371,000 of for eign secured debt.
(5) Includes liabilities / (assets) that impact cash or NOI and excludes non real estate loans and non-cash items such as the following (in thousands):
Unearned revenues $ 446,027
Below market tenant lease intangibles, net 27,212
Deferred taxes, net (50,165)
Intangible assets, net (159,684)
Other non-cash liabilities / (assets), net 7,141
Total non-cash liabilities/(assets), net $ 270,531
(6) Represents $1,525,536,000 of real estate loans, excluding development loans and including certain in substance real estate developments and held to maturity debt securities, and net of $13,040,000 of credit allowances.
(7) Represents $429,663,000 of non-real estate loans, net of $170,746,000 of credit allowances.
(8) Average cash-pay interest rates are 7.2%, 1.7% and 5.9% for real estate, non-real estate loans and joint venture real estate loans, respectively. Rates exclude non-accrual/interest-free loans.
(9) Represents partners' share of Welltower loans made to our partners in select joint ventures, secured by their interest in the joint venture properties.
(10) Primarily represents the estimated fair value of 3.4% ownership in Seniors Housing Operating portfolios excluded from IPNOI.
(11) Represents proceeds from expected property dispositions in the next twelve months.
(12) See pages 9-10. Also includes expansion projects.
(13) Includes OP Units and DownREIT Units.
11
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Net Operating Income (1,2)
1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23
Revenues:
Seniors Housing Operating
Resident fees and services $ 965,574 $ 1,000,571 $ 1,057,814 $ 1,091,043 $ 1,138,916
Interest income 1,398 1,642 2,210 2,388 2,318
Other income 3,007 (1,251) 1,729 1,715 2,510
Total revenues 969,979 1,000,962 1,061,753 1,095,146 1,143,744
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Rental income 121,233 123,557 116,233 122,267 119,786
Interest income 33,097 31,725 32,726 31,837 31,540
Other income 1,471 1,786 1,307 1,361 1,675
Total revenues 155,801 157,068 150,266 155,465 153,001
Outpatient Medical
Rental income 160,288 163,808 170,051 174,182 182,044
Interest income 71 65 80 86 91
Other income 3,238 2,347 1,859 2,548 3,055
Total revenues 163,597 166,220 171,990 176,816 185,190
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Rental income 68,841 68,598 70,356 71,021 80,423
Interest income 5,107 5,499 5,760 5,982 6,367
Other income 234 — 513 153 193
Total revenues 74,182 74,097 76,629 77,156 86,983
Corporate
Other income 3,183 3,665 3,942 7,714 5,147
Total revenues 3,183 3,665 3,942 7,714 5,147
Total
Rental income 350,362 355,963 356,640 367,470 382,253
Resident fees and services 965,574 1,000,571 1,057,814 1,091,043 1,138,916
Interest Income 39,673 38,931 40,776 40,293 40,316
Other Income 11,133 6,547 9,350 13,491 12,580
Total revenues 1,366,742 1,402,012 1,464,580 1,512,297 1,574,065
Property operating expenses:
Seniors Housing Operating 774,936 777,178 831,556 866,482 894,981
Seniors Housing Triple-net 7,441 7,799 7,710 6,924 7,917
Outpatient Medical 50,599 51,177 53,684 53,259 58,977
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 3,973 3,916 4,034 3,426 4,040
Corporate 2,615 2,645 5,794 5,086 3,877
Total property operating expenses 839,564 842,715 902,778 935,177 969,792
Net operating income:
Seniors Housing Operating 195,043 223,784 230,197 228,664 248,763
Seniors Housing Triple-net 148,360 149,269 142,556 148,541 145,084
Outpatient Medical 112,998 115,043 118,306 123,557 126,213
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 70,209 70,181 72,595 73,730 82,943
Corporate 568 1,020 (1,852) 2,628 1,270
Net operating income $ 527,178 $ 559,297 $ 561,802 $ 577,120 $ 604,273
Note:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 17. Includes amounts from investments sold or held for sale. NOI related to DownREITs included at 100%. Excludes NOI related to a leasehold portfolio interest for 26 properties assumed by a wholly-owned affiliate in conjunction with the Holiday Retirement transaction. Subsequent to the initial transaction, we purchased eight of the leased properties and one of the properties was sold by the landlord and removed from the lease. No rent was paid in excess of net cash flow relating to the leasehold properties and therefore, the leasehold interests were excluded from NOI and relevant metrics such as property count, unit count, IPNOI. same store NOI, RevPOR and same store RevPOR. Effective April 1, 2022, the lease was terminated and the related lease termination income was also excluded from NOI.
(2) The results related to the 205 properties previously reported as Health System have been reclassified to Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care for all periods.
12
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Leverage and EBITDA Reconciliations (1)
Twelve Months Ended Three Months Ended
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2023
Net income (loss) $ 123,452 $ 28,635
Interest expense 552,226 144,403
Income tax expense (benefit) 5,279 3,045
Depreciation and amortization 1,345,392 339,112
EBITDA 2,026,349 515,195
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 25,477 7,071
Stock-based compensation 27,709 9,124
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 697 5
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net 6,144 (747)
Impairment of assets 30,131 12,629
Provision for loan losses, net 11,098 777
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 5,751 930
Other expenses 98,346 22,745
Lease termination and leasehold interest adjustment (2)
(56,397) —
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 14,865 4,487
Other impairment (3)
(620) —
Total adjustments 163,201 57,021
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,189,550 $ 572,216
Interest Coverage Ratios
Interest expense $ 552,226 $ 144,403
Capitalized interest 35,347 10,335
Non-cash interest expense (22,728) (5,083)
Total interest $ 564,845 $ 149,655
EBITDA $ 2,026,349 $ 515,195
Interest coverage ratio 3.59 x 3.44 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,189,550 $ 572,216
Adjusted Interest coverage ratio 3.88 x 3.82 x
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios
Total interest $ 564,845 $ 149,655
Secured debt principal amortization 57,088 14,942
Total fixed charges $ 621,933 $ 164,597
EBITDA $ 2,026,349 $ 515,195
Fixed charge coverage ratio 3.26 x 3.13 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,189,550 $ 572,216
Adjusted Fixed charge coverage ratio 3.52 x 3.48 x
Net Debt to EBITDA Ratios
Total debt (4)
$ 15,074,320
Less: cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (638,796)
Net debt $ 14,435,524
EBITDA Annualized $ 2,060,780
Net debt to EBITDA ratio 7.00 x
Adjusted EBITDA Annualized $ 2,288,864
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 6.31 x
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 17.
(2) Effective April 1, 2022, our leasehold interest relating to the master lease with National Health Investors ("NHI") for 17 properties assumed in conjunction with the Holiday Retirement acquisition was terminated as a result of the transition or sale of the properties by NHI. We recognized a gain of $58,621,000 r elated to the termination of this lease in other income. The net impact of these leasehold properties inclusive of the gain has been excluded from Adjusted EBITDA.
(3) Primarily related to the release of previously reserved straight-line receivables.
(4) Includes unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments and financing lease liabilities of $113,254,000. Excludes operating lease liabilities of $301,915,000 related to ASC 842 adoption.
13
Financial
(in thousands except share price)
Leverage and Current Capitalization (1)
% of Total
Book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — 0.00 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
15,074,320 41.83 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (638,796) (1.77) %
Net debt to consolidated book capitalization $ 14,435,524 40.06 %
Total equity (4)
21,596,155 59.94 %
Consolidated book capitalization $ 36,031,679 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
961,987
Total book capitalization $ 36,993,666
Undepreciated book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — 0.00 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
15,074,320 33.92 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (638,796) (1.44) %
Net debt to consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 14,435,524 32.48 %
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 8,417,151 18.94 %
Total equity (4)
21,596,155 48.58 %
Consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 44,448,830 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
961,987
Total undepreciated book capitalization $ 45,410,817
Enterprise value
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — 0.00 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
15,074,320 29.46 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (638,796) (1.25) %
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value $ 14,435,524 28.21 %
Common shares outstanding 496,295
Period end share price 71.69
Common equity market capitalization $ 35,579,389 69.54 %
Noncontrolling interests (4)
1,148,000 2.24 %
Consolidated enterprise value $ 51,162,913 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
961,987
Total enterprise value $ 52,124,900
Secured debt as % of total assets
Secured debt (2)
$ 2,474,837 5.28 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 46,911,040
Total debt as % of gross asset value
Total debt (2)(3)
$ 15,074,320 32.13 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 46,911,040
Unsecured debt as % of unencumbered assets
Unsecured debt (2)
$ 12,486,229 30.64 %
Unencumbered gross assets (7)
$ 40,756,547
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 17.
(2) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts and other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(3) Includes financing lease liabiliti es of $113,254,000 and excludes operating lease liabilities of $301,915,000 related to ASC 842 adoption.
(4) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our balance sheet.
(5) Net of Welltower's share of unconsolidated debt and minority partners' share of Welltower consolidated debt.
(6) Gross asset value equals total assets plus accumulated depreciation as reflected on the balance sheet.
(7) Unencumbered gross assets equals gross asset value for consolidated properties that are not financed with secured debt.
14
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Debt Maturities and Principal Payments (1)
Year
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3,4,5,6)
Consolidated Secured Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (7)
% of Total
Wtd. Avg. Interest Rate (8)
2023 $ — $ — $ 550,304 $ 235,171 $ (133,747) $ 651,728 4.05 % 5.16 %
2024 — 1,350,000 376,620 176,613 (70,161) 1,833,072 11.40 % 4.11 %
2025 — 1,260,000 287,203 523,455 (42,398) 2,028,260 12.61 % 3.94 %
2026 — 700,000 139,870 71,331 (19,720) 891,481 5.54 % 4.12 %
2027 — 1,906,654 186,449 114,490 (38,285) 2,169,308 13.49 % 4.49 %
2028 — 1,430,295 93,809 25,480 (11,003) 1,538,581 9.57 % 4.49 %
2029 — 1,050,000 289,308 35,698 (916) 1,374,090 8.54 % 3.66 %
2030 — 750,000 56,660 30,155 (124) 836,691 5.20 % 3.14 %
2031 — 1,350,000 6,556 32,630 (130) 1,389,056 8.64 % 2.77 %
2032 — 1,050,000 47,516 3,377 (135) 1,100,758 6.84 % 4.08 %
Thereafter — 1,768,450 472,513 70,501 (40,295) 2,271,169 14.12 % 5.03 %
Totals $ — $ 12,615,399 $ 2,506,808 $ 1,318,901 $ (356,914) $ 16,084,194 100.00 %
Weighted Avg. Interest Rate (8)
— 4.06 % 4.55 % 4.33 % 4.70 % 4.14 %
Weighted Avg. Maturity Years —
(2)
6.8 4.6 4.4 3.1 6.3
(2)
% Floating Rate Debt (8)
100.00 % 11.06 % 27.67 % 19.35 % 44.51 % 13.58 %
Debt by Local Currency (1)
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3,4,5,6)
Consolidated Secured Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (7)
Investment Hedges (9)
United States $ — $ 10,910,000 $ 1,560,038 $ 995,867 $ (138,481) $ 13,327,424 $ —
United Kingdom — 1,298,745 — — — 1,298,745 2,338,617
Canada — 406,654 946,770 323,034 (218,433) 1,458,025 794,824
Totals $ — $ 12,615,399 $ 2,506,808 $ 1,318,901 $ (356,914) $ 16,084,194 $ 3,133,441
Notes:
(1) Represents principal amounts due excluding unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(2) Our unsecured commercial paper program and our unsecured revolving credit facility had a zero balance as of March 31, 2023. The unsecured revolving credit facility is comprised of a $1,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2026 and a $3,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2025. Both tranches may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. Commercial paper borrowings are backstopped by the unsecured revolving credit facility.
(3) 2027 includes a $1,000,000,000 unsecured term loan and a CAD $250,000,000 unsecured term loan (approximately $184,843,000 USD at March 31, 2023). The loans mature on July 19, 2026. The interest rates on the loans are adjusted SOFR + 0.85% for USD and CDOR + 0.85% for CAD. Both term loans may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option.
(4) 2027 includes CAD $300,000,000 of 2.95% senior unsecured notes (approximately $221,811,000 USD at March 31, 2023) that matures on January 15, 2027.
(5) 2028 includes £550,000,000 of 4.80% senior unsecured notes (approximately $680,295,000 USD at March 31, 2023). The notes mature on November 20, 2028.
(6) Thereafter includes £500,000,000 of 4.50% senior unsecured notes (approximately $618,450,000 USD at March 31, 2023). The notes mature on December 1, 2034.
(7) Excludes operating lease liabilities of $301,915,000 and finance lease liabilities of $113,254,000 related to ASC 842 adoption.
(8) Based on variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of March 31, 2023. The interest rate on the unsecured revolving credit facility is adjusted SOFR + 0.775%. Commercial paper, senior notes and secured debt average interest rate represents the face value note rate. Includes the impact of notional swaps and caps to convert fixed rate debt to SOFR-based floating rate debt, SOFR-based floating rate debt, LIBOR-based floating rate debt and CDOR-based floating rate debt to fixed rate debt.
(9) Represents notional value of foreign currency derivative contracts at end of period spot FX rates. The fair market value of the gains (losses) of these contracts is currently USD $146,527,000, as represented in other assets (liabilities) on the balance sheet. We supplement our local currency debt with foreign currency derivative contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our international investments. Currently, our foreign currency derivatives are comprised of forward contracts and cross-currency swaps.
15
Glossary
Age: Current year, less the year built, adjusted for major renovations. Average age is weighted by pro rata NOI.
Cap-ex, Tenant Improvements, Leasing Commissions: Represents amounts incurred for: 1) recurring and non-recurring capital expenditures required to maintain and re-tenant our properties; 2) second generation tenant improvements; and 3) leasing commissions paid to third party leasing agents to secure new tenants.
Construction Conversion: Represents completed construction projects that were placed into service and began generating NOI.
EBITDAR: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDAR and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDAR Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDAR to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDAR coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
EBITDARM: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDARM and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDARM Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDARM to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDARM coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations, assuming that management fees are not paid. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
Health System - Affiliated: Outpatient medical properties are considered affiliated with a health system if one or more of the following conditions are met: 1) the land parcel is contained within the physical boundaries of a hospital campus; 2) the land parcel is located adjacent to the campus; 3) the building is physically connected to the hospital regardless of the land ownership structure; 4) a ground lease is maintained with a health system entity; 5) a master lease is maintained with a health system entity; 6) significant square footage is leased to a health system entity; 7) the property includes an ambulatory surgery center with a hospital partnership interest; or (8) a significant square footage is leased to a physician group that is either employed, directly or indirectly by a health system, or has a significant clinical and financial affiliation with the health system.
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care: Includes all skilled nursing, rehabilitation and long-term/post-acute care facilities where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement and are subject to triple-net operating leases. Most of these facilities focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.
MSA: For the United States and Canada, we use the Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Census Metropolitan Areas as defined by Statistics Canada, respectively. For the United Kingdom, we generally use the Metro Region as defined by EuroStat with Greater London defined as a 55-mile radius around the city’s center.
Occupancy: Outpatient Medical occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied, including month-to-month leases, as of the date reported. Occupancy for all other property types represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the most recent quarter of available data and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and has not independently verified the information. Occupancy metrics are reflected at our pro rata share.
Outpatient Medical: Outpatient medical buildings include properties offering ambulatory medical services such as prima ry and secondary care, outpatient surgery, diagnostic procedures and rehabilitation. These properties are typically affiliated with a health system and may be located on a hospital campus. They are specifically designed and constructed for use by health care professionals to provide services to patients. They also include medical office buildings that typically contain sole and group physician practices and may provide laboratory and other specialty services.
Seniors Housing Operating (SHO): Includes independent, assisted living and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. structured to take advantage of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007.
Seniors Housing Triple-net (SH-NNN): Includes independent, assisted living, and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. subject to triple-net operating leases and loans receivable.
Square Feet : Net rentable square feet calculated utilizing Building Owners and Managers Association measurement standards.
Stable: Generally, a triple-net rental property is considered stable (versus unstabilized or under development) when it has achieved EBITDAR coverage of 1.00x or greater for three consecutive months or, if targeted performance has not been achieved, 12 months following the budgeted stabilization date. Triple-net properties for which income is recognized on a cash basis and for which substantially all contractual rent during the period has not been collected are excluded from the stable portfolio. A Seniors Housing Operating facility is considered stable upon the earliest of 90% occupancy, NOI at or above the underwritten target or 12 months past the underwritten stabilization date. Excludes assets held for sale and assets disposed of during the current quarter.
Unstabilized: An acquisition that does not meet the stable criteria upon closing or a construction property that has opened but not yet reached stabilization.
16
Supplemental Reporting Measures
We believe that revenues and net income, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR, SS ExpPOR, NOI, In-Place NOI ("IPNOI") and Same Store NOI ("SSNOI") to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and are unallocable to the properties, or transaction costs. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. IPNOI represents NOI excluding interest income, other income and non-IPNOI and adjusted for timing of current quarter portfolio changes such as acquisitions, development conversions, segment transitions, dispositions and investments held for sale. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata version of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and includes any revenue or expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses/impairments on properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and secured debt principal amortization. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA, book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None of the supplemental reporting measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Multi-period amounts may not equal the sum of the individual quarterly amounts due to rounding.
17
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands)
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
NOI Reconciliation 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23
Net income (loss) $ 65,751 $ 95,672 $ (2,653) $ 1,798 $ 28,635
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (22,934) 3,532 (1,064) 4,423 (747)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 2,884 7,058 6,698 4,650 7,071
Income tax expense (benefit) 5,013 3,065 3,257 (4,088) 3,045
Other expenses 26,069 35,166 15,481 24,954 22,745
Impairment of assets — — 4,356 13,146 12,629
Provision for loan losses, net (804) 165 490 10,469 777
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (12) 603 2 87 5
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 2,578 (1,407) 6,905 258 930
General and administrative expenses 37,706 36,554 34,811 41,319 44,371
Depreciation and amortization 304,088 310,295 353,699 342,286 339,112
Interest expense 121,696 127,750 139,682 140,391 144,403
Consolidated net operating income 542,035 618,453 561,664 579,693 602,976
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
20,142 23,648 27,374 24,950 26,354
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(34,999) (82,804) (27,236) (27,523) (25,057)
Pro rata net operating income (NOI) (3)
$ 527,178 $ 559,297 $ 561,802 $ 577,120 $ 604,273
In-Place NOI Reconciliation
At Welltower pro rata ownership Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Corporate Total
Revenues $ 1,143,744 $ 153,001 $ 185,190 $ 86,983 $ 5,147 $ 1,574,065
Property operating expenses (894,981) (7,917) (58,977) (4,040) (3,877) (969,792)
NOI (3)
248,763 145,084 126,213 82,943 1,270 604,273
Adjust:
Interest income (2,318) (31,540) (91) (6,367) — (40,316)
Other income (2,338) (826) (285) (193) (1,148) (4,790)
Sold / held for sale 371 2 115 (1,857) — (1,369)
Non operational (4)
1,367 — (265) (84) — 1,018
Non In-Place NOI (5)
(6,167) (13,104) (5,078) (13,140) (122) (37,611)
Timing adjustments (6)
283 (27) 1,741 104 — 2,101
Total adjustments (8,802) (45,495) (3,863) (21,537) (1,270) (80,967)
In-Place NOI 239,961 99,589 122,350 61,406 — 523,306
Annualized In-Place NOI $ 959,844 $ 398,356 $ 489,400 $ 245,624 $ — $ 2,093,224
Same Store Property Reconciliation
Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Total
Total properties 959 373 435 241 2,008
Recent acquisitions/ development conversions (7)
(98) (13) (44) — (155)
Under development (41) — (6) — (47)
Under redevelopment (8)
(9) — (4) (6) (19)
Current held for sale (5) — (1) (7) (13)
Land parcels, loans and sub-leases (21) (8) (9) — (38)
Transitions (9)
(29) (13) — (150) (192)
Other (10)
(10) — — (2) (12)
Same store properties 746 339 371 76 1,532
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove NOI related to certain leasehold properties. See page 12 for more information.
(3) Represents Welltower's pro rata share of NOI. See page 12 for more information.
(4) Primarily includes development properties and land parcels.
(5) Primarily represents non-cash NOI.
(6) Represents timing adjustments for current quarter acquisitions, construction conversions and segment or operator transitions
(7) Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the same store pool 5 full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy.
(8) Redevelopment properties will enter the same store pool after 5 full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion.
(9) Transitioned properties will enter the same store pool after 5 full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new structure.
(10) Represents properties that are either closed or being closed.
18
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Same Store NOI Reconciliation 1Q22 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 Y/o/Y
Seniors Housing Operating
NOI $ 195,043 $ 223,784 $ 230,197 $ 228,664 $ 248,763
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (1,865) (1,187) (1,324) (1,277) (1,301)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (12,519) (16,414) (33,760) (26,766) (35,634)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(3,570) (1,892) (649) 610 (522)
Normalizing adjustment for government grants (2)
(1,993) (16,804) (2,190) (2,595) (51)
Normalizing adjustment for casualty related expenses, net (3)
(156) 2,010 1,607 5,515 5,049
Other normalizing adjustments (4)
385 140 — — —
SSNOI (5)
175,325 189,637 193,881 204,151 216,304 23.4 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net
NOI 148,360 149,269 142,556 148,541 145,084
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (7,727) (13,320) (10,878) (10,378) (12,561)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (44,561) (43,146) (39,741) (43,968) (37,903)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(1,656) (818) 295 371 (212)
Other normalizing adjustments (4)
(213) — — — —
SSNOI 94,203 91,985 92,232 94,566 94,408 0.2 %
Outpatient Medical
NOI 112,998 115,043 118,306 123,557 126,213
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (3,237) (3,417) (3,867) (4,445) (4,294)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (1,989) (4,483) (5,731) (9,329) (11,676)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
575 437 192 (153) 180
Other normalizing adjustments (4)
(146) 166 (1,056) — (440)
SSNOI 108,201 107,746 107,844 109,630 109,983 1.6 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
NOI 70,209 70,181 72,595 73,730 82,943
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (840) (725) (1,654) (1,526) (1,538)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (46,869) (47,050) (47,914) (49,478) (58,075)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(136) (123) (84) (16) (22)
Other normalizing adjustments (4)
— — (327) — —
SSNOI 22,364 22,283 22,616 22,710 23,308 4.2 %
Corporate
NOI 568 1,020 (1,852) 2,628 1,270
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (568) (1,020) 1,852 (2,628) (1,270)
SSNOI — — — — —
Total
NOI 527,178 559,297 561,802 577,120 604,273
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (13,669) (18,649) (17,723) (17,626) (19,694)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (106,506) (112,113) (125,294) (132,169) (144,558)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(4,787) (2,396) (246) 812 (576)
Normalizing adjustments, net (2,123) (14,488) (1,966) 2,920 4,558
SSNOI $ 400,093 $ 411,651 $ 416,573 $ 431,057 $ 444,003 11.0 %
Notes:
(1) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.37 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.20 .
(2) Represents normalizing adjustment related to amounts recognized related to the Health and Human Services Provider Relief Fund in the United States and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
(3) Represents normalizing adjustment related to casualty related expenses net of any insurance reimbursements.
(4) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type.
(5) SHO SSNOI includes expenses that are directly attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic net of any reimbursements exclusive of those included in (2) above.
19
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands, except RevPOR, SS RevPOR and SSNOI/unit)
SHO RevPOR Reconciliation United States United Kingdom Canada Total
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 913,152 $ 109,328 $ 114,201 $ 1,136,681
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to Welltower (1)
35,174 1,174 23,232 59,580
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(18,432) (11,234) (22,851) (52,517)
Pro rata SHO revenues (3)
929,894 99,268 114,582 1,143,744
SHO interest and other income (13,722) (66) (439) (14,227)
SHO revenues attributable to sold and held for sale properties (1,119) — — (1,119)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(2,175) (1,167) (1,594) (4,936)
SHO local revenues 912,878 98,035 112,549 1,123,462
Average occupied units/month 53,962 3,642 13,054 70,658
RevPOR/month in USD $ 5,717 $ 9,097 $ 2,914 $ 5,374
RevPOR/month in local currency (4)
£ 7,581 $ 3,992
Reconciliations of SHO SS RevPOR Growth, SSNOI Growth and SSNOI/Unit
United States United Kingdom Canada Total
1Q22 1Q23 1Q22 1Q23 1Q22 1Q23 1Q22 1Q23
SHO SS RevPOR Growth
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 786,071 $ 913,152 $ 101,099 $ 109,328 $ 109,442 $ 114,201 $ 996,612 $ 1,136,681
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
26,834 35,174 — 1,174 22,274 23,232 49,108 59,580
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(43,901) (18,432) (9,367) (11,234) (22,473) (22,851) (75,741) (52,517)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
769,004 929,894 91,732 99,268 109,243 114,582 969,979 1,143,744
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (2,404) (1,981) (5) (27) (30) (340) (2,439) (2,348)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (77,075) (156,775) (2,756) (4,690) (7,899) (12,297) (87,730) (173,762)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
15,127 — (9,385) (1,113) (7,619) (1,298) (1,877) (2,411)
SHO SS revenues (5)
$ 704,652 $ 771,138 $ 79,586 $ 93,438 $ 93,695 $ 100,647 $ 877,933 $ 965,223
Avg. occupied units/month (6)
43,152 44,318 3,122 3,461 11,234 11,442 57,508 59,221
SHO SS RevPOR (7)
$ 5,519 $ 5,881 $ 8,615 $ 9,124 $ 2,819 $ 2,973 $ 5,159 $ 5,508
SS RevPOR YOY growth 6.6 % 5.9 % 5.5 % 6.8 %
SHO SSNOI Growth
Consolidated SHO NOI $ 160,239 $ 199,833 $ 18,224 $ 19,197 $ 26,155 $ 30,568 $ 204,618 $ 249,598
Unconsolidated SHO NOI attributable to WELL (1)
3,616 5,859 — (558) 5,950 6,825 9,566 12,126
SHO NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(12,801) (5,560) (1,345) (1,962) (4,866) (5,438) (19,012) (12,960)
SHO pro rata NOI (3)
151,054 200,132 16,879 16,677 27,239 31,955 195,172 248,764
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (1,873) (1,296) (4) (4) 12 (1) (1,865) (1,301)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (9,639) (30,907) 354 660 (3,363) (5,387) (12,648) (35,634)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
6 20 (1,784) (205) (1,792) (339) (3,570) (524)
Normalizing adjustment for government grants (8)
(582) (51) (416) — (995) — (1,993) (51)
Normalizing adjustment for casualty related expenses (9)
(156) 5,068 — — — (18) (156) 5,050
Other normalizing adjustments (10)
385 — — — — — 385 —
SHO pro rata SSNOI (5)
$ 139,195 $ 172,966 $ 15,029 $ 17,128 $ 21,101 $ 26,210 $ 175,325 $ 216,304
SHO SSNOI growth 24.3 % 14.0 % 24.2 % 23.4 %
SHO SSNOI/Unit
Trailing four quarters' SSNOI (5)
$ 639,686 $ 62,854 $ 101,433 $ 803,973
Average units in service (11)
55,809 4,397 14,341 74,547
SSNOI/unit in USD $ 11,462 $ 14,295 $ 7,073 $ 10,785
SSNOI/unit in local currency (4)
£ 11,913 $ 9,689
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner and includes an adjustment to remove revenues and NOI related to certain leasehold properties. See page 12 for more information .
(3) Represents SHO revenues/NOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 12 for more information.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.37 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.20 .
(5) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues/SSNOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 19 for more information.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
(8) Represents normalizing adjustment for amounts recognized related to the Health and Human Services Provider Relief Fund in the United States and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
(9) Represents normalizing adjustment related to casualty related expenses net of any insurance reimbursements.
(10) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than .50% of SSNOI growth.
(11) Represents average units in service for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
20
Forward-Looking Statement and Risk Factors
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This document contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “pro forma,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower’s actual results to differ materially from Welltower’s expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower’s ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters and other acts of God affecting Welltower’s properties; Welltower’s ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower’s ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower’s properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower’s financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates; Welltower’s ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower’s reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Additional Information
The information in this supplemental information package should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our earnings press release d ated May 2, 2023 an d other information filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Supplemental Reporting Measures and reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are an integral part of the information presented herein.
You can access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act at www.welltower.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You can also review these SEC filings and other information by accessing the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors.” Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the SEC. The information on or connected to our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of, or incorporated into this supplemental information package.
About Welltower
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), a REIT and S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. Welltower invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower, owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available at www.welltower.com.
21
