---
doc_type: sec_filing
source: sec_edgar
ticker: WELL
accession_number: 0000766704-23-000023
form_type: 8-K
items:
- '2.02'
- '9.01'
filed_date: '2023-07-31'
filing_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670423000023/well-20230731.htm
press_release_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670423000023/a2q23earningsrelease991.htm
tickers:
- WELL
themes:
- demographic_demand_tailwinds
ingestion_date: '2026-07-14'
extraction_source: v3 SEC filings pipeline (sec_filings.py); EDGAR; claude-extracted
  themes
---

# WELL 8-K — filed 2023-07-31

## 8-K body

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 31, 2023
Welltower Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 1-8923 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction
of Incorporation) (Commission
File Number) (IRS Employer
Identification No.)
4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: ( 419 ) 247-2800
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock, $1.00 par value per share WELL New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.800% Notes due 2028 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/28 New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.500% Notes due 2034 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/34 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 31, 2023 , Welltower Inc. (the “Company”) issued a press release that announced operating results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2023. The press release refers to a supplemental information package that is available on the Company's website (www.welltower.com), free of charge. Copies of the press release and supplemental information package have been furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report, and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press release of Welltower Inc. dated July 31, 2023
99.2 Welltower Inc. Supplemental Information Package for the quarter ended June 30, 2023.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
WELLTOWER INC.
By: /s/ Matthew McQueen
Name: Matthew McQueen
Title: Executive Vice President – General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
Dated: July 31, 2023

## Exhibit EX-99.1

EX-99.1
2
a2q23earningsrelease991.htm
EX-99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 31, 2023
For more information contact:
Tim McHugh (419) 247-2800
Welltower Reports Second Quarter 2023 Results
Toledo, Ohio, July 31, 2023….. Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL ) today announced results for the quarter ended June 30, 2023.
Recent Highlights
• Reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.20 per diluted share
• Reported normalized funds from operations ("FFO") attributable to common stockholders of $0.90 per diluted share
• Reported total portfolio year-over-year same store NOI ("SSNOI") growth of 12.7%, driven by SSNOI growth in our Seniors Housing Operating ("SHO") portfolio of 24.2%
• SHO portfolio year-over-year same store ("SS") revenue increased 9.9% in the second quarter, driven by 190 basis points ("bps") of year-over-year average occupancy growth and Revenue Per Occupied Room ("RevPOR") growth of 7.3%
• SHO portfolio year-over-year SSNOI margin expanded by 290 bps driven primarily by strong RevPOR growth which continued to meaningfully outpace Expense per Occupied Room ("ExpPOR") growth
• During the first half of the year, completed nearly $700 million of pro rata acquisitions and loan funding
• Since the beginning of the second quarter, we closed or are under contract to close 26 new transactions representing pro rata acquisition and loan funding of approximately $2.3 billion, bringing year-to-date total investment activity to $3.0 billion
• As of July 28, 2023, we had approximately $6.7 billion of available liquidity inclusive of $2.7 billion of available cash and restricted cash and full capacity under our $4.0 billion line of credit
• Improved net debt to Adjusted EBITDA to 5.62x at June 30, 2023 from 6.89x at June 30, 2022
• Revised full year 2023 net income attributable to common stockholders outlook to a range of $0.73 to $0.84 per diluted share as compared to previous guidance of $0.61 to $0.74 per diluted share. Full year normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders guidance has been revised to a range of $3.48 to $3.59 per diluted share as compared to previous guidance of $3.43 to $3.56 per diluted share
Capital Activity and Liquidity During the second quarter, net debt to consolidated enterprise value improved to 24.6% at June 30, 2023 from 29.5% at December 31, 2022. During the second quarter and subsequent to quarter end, we sourced over $3 billion of attractively priced capital, including debt, exchangeable debt, equity and proceeds from dispositions and loan payoffs to fund accretive capital deployment opportunities and to further strengthen our already robust liquidity profile.
Provider Relief Funds During the second quarter, we recognized approximately $7.4 million of Provider Relief Funds, benefiting net income attributable to common stockholders and normalized FFO by approximately $0.01 per diluted share.
Notable Investment Activity In the second quarter, we completed $414 million of pro rata gross investments, including $164 million in acquisitions and loan funding and $250 million in development funding. We opened nine development projects for an aggregate pro rata investment amount of $315 million. Additionally, during the second quarter we completed pro rata property dispositions and loan payoffs of $433 million.
Revera Joint Venture During the second quarter, we entered into definitive agreements to dissolve our existing Revera joint venture relationship across the U.S., United Kingdom and Canada. The transactions include acquiring the remaining interests in 110 properties from Revera while simultaneously selling interests in 31 properties to Revera.
During the second quarter, we closed the U.K. portfolio portion of the transaction through the acquisition of the remaining ownership interest in 29 properties previously held in two separate consolidated joint venture structures in which we owned 75% and 90% of the interests in exchange for the disposition to Revera of our interests in four properties. Operations for these properties were transitioned to Avery, who recently appointed seniors housing industry veteran, Lorna Rose, as CEO. Ms. Rose has over 35 years of experience in healthcare, most recently serving on the executive teams at Bupa and Barchester Healthcare, both premier seniors housing operators in the U.K.
In July 2023, we closed transactions related primarily to our U.S portfolio through the acquisition of ten well-located properties currently under development or recently developed by Sunrise Senior Living, previously owned in a 34% Welltower/66% Revera joint venture. Additionally, we sold our minority interests in 12 U.S. properties and one Canadian development project. Operations for two
Page 1 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
recently developed now wholly-owned properties, as well as an additional 26 existing 100% owned properties transitioned to Oakmont Management Group, which has previously demonstrated rapid success in driving outsized NOI growth after assuming management of properties in its core markets. In conjunction with the transaction we also sold our 34% interest in the Sunrise Senior Living management company.
We anticipate closing the remainder of the transactions related to our Canadian portfolio before year end. The Canadian portfolio consists of 85 properties in a joint venture owned 75% by us and 25% by Revera. As a part of the transaction, we will acquire Revera's interest in 71 properties and sell our interests in the remaining 14 properties.
StoryPoint Senior Living We continued to expand our relationship with StoryPoint, a preeminent senior living operator based in Brighton, Michigan, through the acquisition of an additional community in Ohio for approximately $35 million.
Genesis HealthCare As previously announced, we transitioned the sublease of a portfolio of seven facilities from Genesis HealthCare to Complete Care Management in the second quarter of 2021. As part of the March 2021 Genesis transactions, we entered into a forward sale agreement for the seven properties valued at approximately $182 million, which was expected to close when the Welltower-held purchase option for these seven facilities became exercisable. On May 1, 2023, we executed a series of transactions that included the assignment of the leasehold interest to a newly formed tri-party unconsolidated joint venture with Aurora Health Network, Peace Capital (an affiliate of Complete Care Management) and Welltower, and culminated with the closing of the $66 million purchase option by the joint venture. The transactions resulted in net cash proceeds to us of approximately $104 million after our retained interest in the joint venture, and a gain from the loss of control and derecognition of the leasehold interest of $65 million recognized in other income.
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) During the second quarter, we achieved an MSCI ESG rating of 'AA', reflecting our robust corporate governance practices, ESG risk management relative to peers and ongoing commitment to advancing sustainability initiatives. Subsequent to quarter-end, we released our 2022 ESG Report, summarizing our progress and achievements across a range of ESG initiatives, including those related to diversity and inclusion, environmental responsibility and corporate governance.
Dividend On July 31, 2023, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended June 30, 2023 of $0.61 per share. This dividend, which will be paid on August 23, 2023 to stockholders of record as of August 15, 2023, will be our 209th consecutive quarterly cash dividend. The declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends remains subject to review an d approval by the Board of Directors.
Outlook for 2023 Net income attributable to common stockholders guidance has been revised to a range of $0.73 to $0.84 per diluted share from the previous range of $0.61 to $0.74 per diluted share, primarily due to change in projected net gains/losses/impairments and depreciation and amortization. We increased the midpoint of the guidance range of full year normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders to a range of $3.48 to $3.59 per diluted share from the previous range of $3.43 to $3.56 per diluted share. In preparing our guidance, we have updated or confirmed the following assumptions:
• Same Store NOI: We expect average blended SSNOI growth of 10% to 13%, which is comprised of the following components:
◦ Seniors Housing Operating approximately 20% to 25%
◦ Seniors Housing Triple-net approximately 1% to 3%
◦ Outpatient Medical approximately 2% to 3%
◦ Long-Term/Post-Acute Care approximately 3% to 4%
• Investments: Our earnings guidance includes only those acquisitions closed to date. Furthermore, no transitions or restructures beyond those announced to date are included.
• Impact of Interest Rates: Increased interest rates on floating rate debt are expected to reduce 2023 normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders by approximately $0.20 per diluted share versus 2022.
• General and Administrative Expenses: We anticipate general and administrative expenses to be approximately $171 million to $177 million and stock-based compensation expense to be approximately $35 million.
• Development: We anticipate funding an additional $441 million of development in 2023 relating to projects underway on June 30, 2023.
• Dispositions: We expect pro rata disposition proceeds of $966 million at a blended yield of 5.0% in the next twelve months. This includes approximately $961 million from expected property sales and $5 million of expected proceeds from loan repayments.
• Provider Relief Funds: Our initial 2023 earnings guidance did not include the recognition of any Provider Relief Funds or other government grants. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, we recognized approximately $11 million at our share relating to Provider Relief Funds and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada. Our updated guidance does not include any additional funds in 2023. During the full year 2022, we recognized approximately $35 million at our share relating to these programs.
Page 2 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
Our guidance does not include any additional investments, dispositions or capital transactions beyond those we have announced, nor any other expenses, impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional normalizing items. Please see the Supplemental Reporting Measures section for further discussion and our definition of normalized FFO and SSNOI and Exhibit 3 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders. We will provide additional detail regarding our 2023 outlook and assumptions on the second quarter 2023 conference call.
Conference Call Information We have scheduled a conference c all on Tuesday, August 1, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss our second quarter 2023 results, industry trends and portfolio performance. Telephone access will be available by dialing (888) 340-5024 or (646) 960-0135 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call throug h August 8, 2023. To access the rebroadcast, dial (800) 770-2030 or (647) 362-9199 (international). The conference ID number i s 8230248. To participate in the webcast, log on to www.welltower.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days.
Supplemental Reporting Measures We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders ("NICS"), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider funds from operations ("FFO"), normalized FFO, net operating income ("NOI"), same store NOI ("SSNOI"), revenue per occupied room ("RevPOR"), same store RevPOR ("SS RevPOR"), expense per occupied room ("ExpPOR"), same store ExpPOR ("SS ExpPOR"), EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO attributable to common stockholders, as defined by NAREIT, means net income attributable to common stockholders, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairments of depreciable assets, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests. Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders represents FFO attributable to common stockholders adjusted for certain items detailed in Exhibit 2. We believe that normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance because investors and equity analysts may use this measure to compare the operating performance of Welltower between periods or as compared to other REITs or other companies on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated and/or incalculable items.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and unallocable to the properties, or transaction costs. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance
Page 3 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
of our properties. No reconciliation of the forecasted range for SSNOI on a combined basis or by property type is included in this release because we are unable to quantify certain amounts that would be required to be included in the comparable GAAP financial measure without unreasonable efforts, and we believe such reconciliation would imply a degree of precision that could be confusing or misleading to investors.
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata version of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement, divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population, which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and includes any revenue or expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses/impairments on properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA. Net debt is defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Consolidated enterprise value represents the sum of net debt, the fair market value of our common stock and noncontrolling interests.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and ratings agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, they are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. The supplemental reporting measures do not represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the exhibits for reconciliations of supplemental reporting measures and the supplemental information package for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, which is available on Welltower's website (www.welltower.com), for information and reconciliations of additional supplemental reporting measures.
About Welltower Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), a real estate investment trust ("REIT") and S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. Welltower invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower, owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available at www.welltower.com. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors”. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this press release, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This press release contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words s uch as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “pro forma,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower’s actual results to differ materially from Welltower’s expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower’s
Page 4 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters and other acts of God affecting Welltower’s properties; Welltower’s ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower’s ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower’s properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower’s financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates; Welltower’s ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower’s reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 5 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
Welltower Inc.
Financial Exhibits
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(in thousands)
June 30,
2023 2022
Assets
Real estate investments:
Land and land improvements $ 4,262,745 $ 4,109,851
Buildings and improvements 34,127,012 32,480,543
Acquired lease intangibles 1,950,349 1,902,141
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 404,071 177,719
Construction in progress 1,108,773 900,633
Less accumulated depreciation and intangible amortization (8,599,622) (7,437,779)
Net real property owned 33,253,328 32,133,108
Right of use assets, net 322,316 324,720
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 965,509 956,285
Net real estate investments 34,541,153 33,414,113
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 1,650,133 1,300,975
Goodwill 68,321 68,321
Cash and cash equivalents 2,203,788 363,339
Restricted cash 95,281 78,912
Straight-line rent receivable 389,381 408,575
Receivables and other assets 1,116,078 939,436
Total other assets 5,522,982 3,159,558
Total assets $ 40,064,135 $ 36,573,671
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ 354,000
Senior unsecured notes 13,530,788 12,488,718
Secured debt 2,460,349 2,191,826
Lease liabilities 348,770 410,717
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 1,531,114 1,254,497
Total liabilities 17,871,021 16,699,758
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 369,191 420,018
Equity:
Common stock 509,805 464,778
Capital in excess of par value 28,085,297 24,465,041
Treasury stock (112,032) (111,691)
Cumulative net income 8,933,663 8,815,446
Cumulative dividends (16,116,698) (14,932,198)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (95,594) (145,196)
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’ equity 21,204,441 18,556,180
Noncontrolling interests 619,482 897,715
Total equity 21,823,923 19,453,895
Total liabilities and equity $ 40,064,135 $ 36,573,671
Page 6 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
Three Months Ended Six Months Ended
June 30, June 30,
2023 2022 2023 2022
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 1,159,449 $ 1,009,999 $ 2,291,134 $ 2,004,334
Rental income 383,439 361,411 767,498 717,801
Interest income 38,710 37,140 75,115 76,134
Other income 83,880 63,986 92,460 69,971
Total revenues 1,665,478 1,472,536 3,226,207 2,868,240
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 958,672 854,083 1,916,425 1,707,752
Depreciation and amortization 341,945 310,295 681,057 614,383
Interest expense 152,337 127,750 296,740 249,446
General and administrative expenses 44,287 36,554 88,658 74,260
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 1,280 (1,407) 2,210 1,171
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 1 603 6 591
Provision for loan losses, net 2,456 165 3,233 (639)
Impairment of assets 1,086 — 13,715 —
Other expenses 11,069 35,166 33,814 61,235
Total expenses 1,513,133 1,363,209 3,035,858 2,708,199
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
and other items 152,345 109,327 190,349 160,041
Income tax (expense) benefit (3,503) (3,065) (6,548) (8,078)
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (40,332) (7,058) (47,403) (9,942)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net (2,168) (3,532) (1,421) 19,402
Income (loss) from continuing operations 106,342 95,672 134,977 161,423
Net income (loss) 106,342 95,672 134,977 161,423
Less:
Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1)
3,302 5,888 6,264 9,714
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 103,040 $ 89,784 $ 128,713 $ 151,709
Average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 499,023 454,327 495,561 450,865
Diluted 501,970 457,082 498,305 453,455
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:
Basic $ 0.21 $ 0.20 $ 0.26 $ 0.34
Diluted (2)
$ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.26 $ 0.33
Common dividends per share $ 0.61 $ 0.61 $ 1.22 $ 1.22
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
(2) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP Units and DownREIT Units.
Page 7 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
FFO Reconciliations Exhibit 1
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended Six Months Ended
June 30, June 30,
2023 2022 2023 2022
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 103,040 $ 89,784 $ 128,713 $ 151,709
Depreciation and amortization 341,945 310,295 681,057 614,383
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions, net 3,254 3,532 15,136 (19,402)
Noncontrolling interests (1)
(12,841) (13,173) (26,168) (27,926)
Unconsolidated entities (2)
30,784 19,150 53,506 38,459
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders 466,182 409,588 852,244 757,223
Normalizing items, net (3)
(15,318) (14,975) 18,153 5,672
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 450,864 $ 394,613 $ 870,397 $ 762,895
Average diluted common shares outstanding 501,970 457,082 498,305 453,455
Per diluted share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income (loss) (4)
$ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.26 $ 0.33
NAREIT FFO $ 0.93 $ 0.90 $ 1.71 $ 1.67
Normalized FFO $ 0.90 $ 0.86 $ 1.75 $ 1.68
Normalized FFO Payout Ratio:
Dividends per common share $ 0.61 $ 0.61 $ 1.22 $ 1.22
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders per share $ 0.90 $ 0.86 $ 1.75 $ 1.68
Normalized FFO payout ratio 68% 71 % 70% 73 %
Other items: (5)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (30,336) $ (25,507) $ (63,720) $ (45,521)
Non-cash interest expenses (6)
6,574 5,552 12,452 10,273
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements, and lease commissions (40,694) (39,558) (77,607) (72,024)
Stock-based compensation 10,491 5,901 19,615 13,343
(1) Represents noncontrolling interests' share of net FFO adjustments.
(2) Represents Welltower's share of net FFO adjustments from unconsolidated entities.
(3) See Exhibit 2.
(4) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
(5) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and including Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(6) Excludes normalized foreign currency loss (gain) (see Exhibit 2).
Page 8 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
Normalizing Items Exhibit 2
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended Six Months Ended
June 30, June 30,
2023 2022 2023 2022
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net $ 1,280 (1) $ (1,407) $ 2,210 $ 1,171
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 1 (2) 603 6 591
Provision for loan losses, net 2,456 (3) 165 3,233 (639)
Income tax benefits — — (246) —
Other impairment — (620) — (620)
Other expenses 11,069 (4) 35,166 33,814 61,235
Leasehold interest termination (65,485) (5) (56,397) (65,485) (64,854)
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 3,568 (6) 2,673 8,055 2,686
Foreign currency loss (gain) (345) (7) 1,840 (572) 1,840
Normalizing items attributable to noncontrolling interests and unconsolidated entities, net 32,138 (8) 3,002 37,138 4,262
Net normalizing items $ (15,318) $ (14,975) $ 18,153 $ 5,672
Average diluted common shares outstanding 501,970 457,082 498,305 453,455
Net normalizing items per diluted share $ (0.03) $ (0.03) $ 0.04 $ 0.01
(1) Primarily related to mark-to-market of the equity warrants received as part of the Safanad/HC-One transaction that closed in 2021.
(2) Primarily related to the extinguishment of secured debt.
(3) Primarily related to reserves for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard.
(4) Primarily related to non-capitalizable transaction costs and an accrual for non-capitalizable promotes.
(5) Primarily related to a gain from the loss of control and derecognition of the leasehold interest related to seven properties.
(6) Primarily relates to casualty losses net of any insurance recoveries.
(7) Primarily relates to foreign currency gains and losses related to accrued interest on intercompany loans and third party debt denominated in a foreign currency.
(8) Primarily related to an impairment recognized on the Sunrise Senior Living unconsolidated management company investment.
Outlook Reconciliation: Year Ending December 31, 2023 Exhibit 3
(in millions, except per share data) Prior Outlook Current Outlook
Low High Low High
FFO Reconciliation:
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 303 $ 368 $ 374 $ 430
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions, net (1,2)
(19) (19) (20) (20)
Depreciation and amortization (1)
1,391 1,391 1,402 1,402
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders 1,675 1,740 1,756 1,812
Normalizing items, net (1,3)
33 33 18 18
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 1,708 $ 1,773 $ 1,774 $ 1,830
Diluted per share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income $ 0.61 $ 0.74 $ 0.73 $ 0.84
NAREIT FFO $ 3.36 $ 3.49 $ 3.44 $ 3.55
Normalized FFO $ 3.43 $ 3.56 $ 3.48 $ 3.59
Other items: (1)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (126) $ (126) $ (126) $ (126)
Non-cash interest expenses 24 24 27 27
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements, and lease commissions (174) (174) (177) (177)
Stock-based compensation 33 33 37 37
(1) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(2) Includes estimated gains on projected dispositions.
(3) See Exhibit 2.
Page 9 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
SSNOI Reconciliation Exhibit 4
(in thousands) Three Months Ended
June 30,
2023 2022 % growth
Net income (loss) $ 106,342 $ 95,672
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net 2,168 3,532
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 40,332 7,058
Income tax expense (benefit) 3,503 3,065
Other expenses 11,069 35,166
Impairment of assets 1,086 —
Provision for loan losses, net 2,456 165
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 1 603
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 1,280 (1,407)
General and administrative expenses 44,287 36,554
Depreciation and amortization 341,945 310,295
Interest expense 152,337 127,750
Consolidated NOI 706,806 618,453
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
25,150 23,648
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(24,262) (82,804)
Pro rata NOI 707,694 559,297
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties
(15,671) (18,162)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties
(242,710) (133,593)
Currency and ownership adjustments (3)
(1,738) (1,713)
Normalizing adjustments, net (4)
(3,378) (11,603)
Same Store NOI (SSNOI) $ 444,197 $ 394,226 12.7%
Seniors Housing Operating 217,863 175,416 24.2%
Seniors Housing Triple-net 93,575 90,740 3.1%
Outpatient Medical 113,097 109,547 3.2%
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 19,662 18,523 6.1%
Total SSNOI
$ 444,197 $ 394,226 12.7%
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages and foreign currency exchange rates for properties in the U.K. and Canada.
(4) Includes other adjustments described in the accompanying Supplement.
Page 10 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
Reconciliation of SHO SS RevPOR Growth Exhibit 5
(in thousands except SS RevPOR)
June 30,
2023 2022
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 1,164,439 $ 1,071,210
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
63,041 51,456
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(48,505) (121,704)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
1,178,975 1,000,962
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (2,006) (907)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (298,776) (211,353)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(3,922) 8,111
SHO SS RevPOR revenues (5)
$ 874,271 $ 796,813
Average occupied units/month (6)
55,788 54,537
SHO SS RevPOR (7)
$ 5,238 $ 4,884
SS RevPOR YOY growth 7.3 %
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents SHO revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent pro perty ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.37 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.20.
(5) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
Page 11 of 12
2Q23 Earnings Release July 31, 2023
Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation Exhibit 6
(in thousands) Three Months Ended
June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022
Net income (loss) $ 106,342 $ 95,672
Interest expense 152,337 127,750
Income tax expense (benefit) 3,503 3,065
Depreciation and amortization 341,945 310,295
EBITDA 604,127 536,782
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 40,332 7,058
Stock-based compensation 10,491 5,901
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 1 603
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net 2,168 3,532
Impairment of assets 1,086 —
Provision for loan losses, net 2,456 165
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 1,280 (1,407)
Other expenses 11,069 35,166
Leasehold interest termination (1)
(65,485) (56,397)
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 3,568 2,673
Other impairment (2)
— (620)
Adjusted EBITDA $ 611,093 $ 533,456
Total debt (3)
$ 16,040,530 $ 15,144,432
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,299,069) (442,251)
Net debt $ 13,741,461 $ 14,702,181
Adjusted EBITDA annualized $ 2,444,372 $ 2,133,824
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 5.62 x 6.89 x
(1) For the three months ended June 30, 2023, relates to the derecognition of leasehold interest related to seven properties. For the three months ended June 30, 2022, relates to the termination of our leasehold interest relating to the master lease with National Health Investors ("NHI") for 17 properties assumed in conjunction with the Holiday Retirement acquisition.
(2) Primarily relates to the release of previously reserved straight-line receivables.
(3) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments and financing lease liabilities. Excludes operating lease liabilities related to ASC 842 adoption.
Net Debt to Consolidated Enterprise Value Exhibit 7
(in thousands, except share price)
June 30, 2023 December 31, 2022
Common shares outstanding 508,159 490,509
Period end share price $ 80.89 $ 65.55
Common equity market capitalization $ 41,104,982 $ 32,152,865
Total debt (1)
$ 16,040,530 $ 14,661,552
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,299,069) (722,292)
Net debt $ 13,741,461 $ 13,939,260
Noncontrolling interests (2)
988,673 1,099,182
Consolidated enterprise value $ 55,835,116 $ 47,191,307
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value 24.6 % 29.5 %
(1) Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and lease liabilities related to finance leases, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. Operating lease liabilities related to the ASC 842 adoption are excluded.
(2) Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets.
Page 12 of 12

## Exhibit EX-99.2

EX-99.2
3
a2q23supplement992.htm
EX-99.2
Table of Contents
Overview
1
Portfolio
2
Investment
6
Financial
11
Glossary
16
Supplemental Reporting Measures
17
Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors
21
Overview
(dollars and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Portfolio Composition (1)
Beds/Unit Mix
Average Age Properties Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care
Seniors Housing Operating 19 957 113,007 16,897 44,444 36,003 14,871 792
Seniors Housing Triple-net 19 373 31,044 — 5,442 14,711 9,140 1,751
Outpatient Medical 17 437 25,987,778 (2) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 28 234 29,682 — — 824 10 28,848
Total 19 2,001
NOI Performance
Same Store (3)
In-Place Portfolio (4)
Properties 2Q22 NOI 2Q23 NOI % Change Properties Annualized
In-Place NOI % of Total
Seniors Housing Operating 674 $ 175,416 $ 217,863 24.2 % 859 $ 1,072,692 49.0 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 327 90,740 93,575 3.1 % 354 396,116 18.1 %
Outpatient Medical 374 109,547 113,097 3.2 % 419 489,144 22.3 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 48 18,523 19,662 6.1 % 204 233,084 10.6 %
Total 1,423 $ 394,226 $ 444,197 12.7 % 1,836 $ 2,191,036 100.0 %
Portfolio Performance Facility Revenue Mix
Stable Portfolio (5)
Occupancy
EBITDAR Coverage (6)
EBITDARM Coverage (6)
Private Pay Medicaid Medicare
Other Government (7)
Seniors Housing Operating 80.7 % n/a n/a 97.3 % 1.2 % 0.6 % 0.9 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 80.4 % 0.88 1.17 94.0 % 2.3 % 0.5 % 3.2 %
Outpatient Medical 94.4 % n/a n/a 100.0 % — — —
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 79.4 % 1.48 1.78 27.3 % 35.0 % 37.7 % — %
Total 0.98 1.27 94.2 % 2.8 % 1.8 % 1.2 %
Notes:
(1) Includes land parcels and properties under development.
(2) Indicates the total square footage of Outpatient Medical properties.
(3) See pages 18 and 19 for reconciliation.
(4) Excludes land parcels, loans, developments and investments held for sale. See page 18 for reconciliation.
(5) Data as of June 30, 2023 for Seniors Housing Operating and Outpatient Medical and March 31, 2023 for remaining asset types.
(6) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics.
(7) Represents various federal and local reimbursement programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
1
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
In-Place NOI Diversification (1)
By Partner: Total Properties Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient
Medical Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care Total % of Total
Sunrise Senior Living 120 $ 192,868 $ — $ — $ — $ 192,868 8.8 %
Integra Healthcare Properties 147 — — — 152,088 152,088 6.9 %
Avery Healthcare 91 38,080 67,424 — — 105,504 4.8 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 75 41,764 44,476 — — 86,240 3.9 %
Cogir Management Corporation 49 85,584 — — — 85,584 3.9 %
Atria Senior Living 92 78,736 — — — 78,736 3.6 %
Oakmont Management Group 35 76,344 — — — 76,344 3.5 %
Belmont Village 21 76,172 — — — 76,172 3.5 %
Sagora Senior Living 40 42,944 23,708 — — 66,652 3.0 %
Brookdale Senior Living 73 — 60,940 — — 60,940 2.8 %
Remaining 1,093 440,200 199,568 489,144 80,996 1,209,908 55.3 %
Total 1,836 $ 1,072,692 $ 396,116 $ 489,144 $ 233,084 $ 2,191,036 100.0 %
By Country:
United States 1,567 $ 889,728 $ 314,576 $ 489,144 $ 226,236 $ 1,919,684 87.6 %
United Kingdom 129 63,928 78,048 — — 141,976 6.5 %
Canada 140 119,036 3,492 — 6,848 129,376 5.9 %
Total 1,836 $ 1,072,692 $ 396,116 $ 489,144 $ 233,084 $ 2,191,036 100.0 %
By MSA:
Los Angeles 73 $ 86,084 $ 19,496 $ 33,376 $ — $ 138,956 6.3 %
New York / New Jersey 76 66,244 11,316 37,328 3,512 118,400 5.4 %
Washington D.C. 56 49,832 8,040 24,388 30,240 112,500 5.1 %
Dallas 64 49,220 6,168 30,224 4,384 89,996 4.1 %
Philadelphia 45 14,104 5,216 18,628 25,520 63,468 2.9 %
Greater London 49 42,404 16,704 — — 59,108 2.7 %
San Francisco 22 34,700 10,336 2,084 — 47,120 2.2 %
Chicago 45 22,016 11,492 7,512 5,784 46,804 2.1 %
Houston 35 8,288 3,308 32,304 — 43,900 2.0 %
San Diego 19 20,748 6,868 8,744 2,912 39,272 1.8 %
Charlotte 26 1,368 10,592 24,096 — 36,056 1.6 %
Seattle 26 15,132 1,084 15,192 4,176 35,584 1.6 %
Montréal 24 34,188 — — — 34,188 1.6 %
Raleigh 13 7,340 22,312 3,156 — 32,808 1.5 %
Boston 24 23,420 5,280 2,584 — 31,284 1.4 %
Minneapolis 20 (608) 16,992 13,548 — 29,932 1.4 %
Indianapolis 17 5,140 13,892 552 9,000 28,584 1.3 %
Atlanta 31 3,824 — 19,192 1,632 24,648 1.1 %
Kansas City 24 8,036 9,812 652 6,100 24,600 1.1 %
Miami 36 (216) 1,364 16,312 6,684 24,144 1.1 %
Remaining 1,111 581,428 215,844 199,272 133,140 1,129,684 51.7 %
Total 1,836 $ 1,072,692 $ 396,116 $ 489,144 $ 233,084 $ 2,191,036 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Represents current quarter annualized In-Place NOI. See page 18 for reconciliation.
2
Portfolio
(dollars, units and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Seniors Housing Operating
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 2Q23
Properties 836 870 882 885 886
Units 84,782 87,375 88,783 89,240 89,932
Total occupancy 77.1 % 78.0 % 78.3 % 79.0 % 79.6 %
Total revenues $ 1,000,962 $ 1,061,753 $ 1,095,146 $ 1,143,744 $ 1,178,975
Operating expenses 777,178 831,556 866,482 894,981 902,068
NOI $ 223,784 $ 230,197 $ 228,664 $ 248,763 $ 276,907
NOI margin 22.4 % 21.7 % 20.9 % 21.7 % 23.5 %
Recurring cap-ex $ 26,806 $ 31,513 $ 36,923 $ 26,848 $ 32,791
Other cap-ex $ 57,225 $ 56,878 $ 75,545 $ 45,557 $ 66,002
Same Store Performance (2)
2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 2Q23
Properties 674 674 674 674 674
Occupancy 78.3 % 79.2 % 79.6 % 79.8 % 80.2 %
Same store revenues $ 797,156 $ 819,487 $ 838,616 $ 854,088 $ 875,900
Compensation 365,500 373,765 379,361 381,631 387,005
Utilities 37,009 43,710 43,259 46,681 39,066
Food 34,060 34,839 36,571 34,704 36,259
Repairs and maintenance 24,883 24,989 24,856 24,934 26,631
Property taxes 32,991 32,883 28,983 32,979 32,290
All other 127,297 130,096 136,103 130,909 136,786
Same store operating expenses 621,740 640,282 649,133 651,838 658,037
Same store NOI $ 175,416 $ 179,205 $ 189,483 $ 202,250 $ 217,863
Same store NOI margin % 22.0 % 21.9 % 22.6 % 23.7 % 24.9 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 24.2 %
Year over year revenue growth rate 9.9 %
Partners (3)
Properties Pro Rata Units
Welltower Ownership % (4)
Top Markets 2Q23 NOI % of Total
Sunrise Senior Living 120 9,895 100.0 % Southern California $ 32,815 11.9 %
Cogir Management Corporation 49 7,168 88.4 % Northern California 21,383 7.7 %
Atria Senior Living 92 10,924 100.0 % New York / New Jersey 16,364 5.9 %
Oakmont Management Group 35 4,428 100.0 % Greater London, UK 11,387 4.1 %
Belmont Village 21 2,804 95.0 % Washington D.C. 12,138 4.4 %
Legend Senior Living 37 2,809 93.3 % Montréal, QC 8,660 3.1 %
Brandywine Living 29 2,704 99.4 % Toronto, ON 7,173 2.6 %
Sagora Senior Living 18 2,884 99.5 % Boston, MA 5,505 2.0 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 43 4,523 100.0 % Seattle, WA 3,153 1.1 %
Revera 64 5,870 75.0 % Vancouver, BC 2,404 0.9 %
Avery Healthcare 41 3,239 100.0 % Birmingham, UK 2,164 0.8 %
Clover 36 3,950 90.4 % Manchester, UK 1,625 0.6 %
Pegasus 35 3,791 99.0 % Ottawa, ON 1,189 0.4 %
Chartwell 42 4,479 49.6 % Top Markets 125,960 45.5 %
Remaining 197 18,675 All Other 150,947 54.5 %
Total 859 88,143 Total $ 276,907 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Properties, units and occupancy exclude land parcels and properties under development.
(2) See pages 18 and 19 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents partner concentration based on annualized In Place NOI for the quarter ended June 30, 2023. Property count and pro rata units represent the In Place portfolio.
(4) Welltower ownership percentage weighted based on In-Place NOI. See page 18 for reconciliation.
3
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Payment Coverage Stratification
EBITDARM Coverage (1)
EBITDAR Coverage (1)
% of In-Place NOI Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases
<.85x 2.6 % 0.1 % 2.7 % 12 4 4.6 % 0.1 % 4.7 % 11 6
.85x-.95x 0.6 % — % 0.6 % 14 1 5.4 % 0.5 % 5.9 % 10 8
.95x-1.05x 1.9 % — % 1.9 % 7 2 0.3 % — % 0.3 % 23 2
1.05x-1.15x 1.7 % 0.5 % 2.2 % 6 3 6.1 % — % 6.1 % 9 3
1.15x-1.25x 1.2 % — % 1.2 % 14 2 1.2 % 1.0 % 2.2 % 11 3
1.25x-1.35x 7.2 % 0.1 % 7.3 % 10 7 — % — % — % — —
>1.35 2.3 % 2.4 % 4.7 % 10 8 — % 1.4 % 1.4 % 12 5
Total 17.6 % 3.0 % 20.6 % 10 27 17.6 % 3.0 % 20.6 % 10 27
Revenue and Lease Maturity (2)
Rental Income
Year Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term / Post-Acute Care Interest
Income Total
Revenues % of Total
2023 $ — $ 41,796 $ 2,159 $ 8,073 $ 52,028 4.0 %
2024 13,088 58,182 — 24,546 95,816 7.4 %
2025 5,667 42,430 — 10,591 58,688 4.5 %
2026 3,529 45,527 9,355 103,528 161,939 12.4 %
2027 — 40,949 1,211 3,173 45,333 3.5 %
2028 — 34,331 5,246 360 39,937 3.1 %
2029 1,004 33,416 — 416 34,836 2.7 %
2030 40,895 34,480 28,411 140 103,926 8.0 %
2031 6,390 45,841 4,310 226 56,767 4.4 %
2032 90,850 37,025 — — 127,875 9.8 %
Thereafter 226,963 117,076 179,976 1,535 525,550 40.2 %
$ 388,386 $ 531,053 $ 230,668 $ 152,588 $ 1,302,695 100.0 %
Weighted Avg Maturity Years 11 6 15 3 9
Notes:
(1) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics as of March 31, 2023 for stable portfolio only. Agreements included represent 68% of total Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care In-Place NOI. See page 18 for a reconciliation. Agreements with mixed units use the predominant type based on investment balance.
(2) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non cash income. Interest income represents contractual rate of interest for loans, net of collectability reserves if applicable.
4
Portfolio
(dollars, square feet and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands except per square feet)
Outpatient Medical
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 2Q23
Properties 384 386 389 419 420
Square feet 18,452,459 18,665,903 18,844,516 20,188,159 20,236,315
Occupancy 94.5 % 94.5 % 94.2 % 94.0 % 94.4 %
Total revenues $ 166,220 $ 171,990 $ 176,816 $ 185,190 $ 186,802
Operating expenses 51,177 53,684 53,259 58,977 59,358
NOI $ 115,043 $ 118,306 $ 123,557 $ 126,213 $ 127,444
NOI margin 69.2 % 68.8 % 69.9 % 68.2 % 68.2 %
Revenues per square foot $ 36.03 $ 37.15 $ 37.53 $ 36.69 $ 36.92
NOI per square foot $ 24.94 $ 25.55 $ 26.23 $ 25.01 $ 25.19
Recurring cap-ex $ 12,752 $ 13,470 $ 25,200 $ 10,666 $ 7,400
Other cap-ex $ 2,303 $ 2,472 $ 5,633 $ 5,118 $ 4,397
Same Store Performance (2)
2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 2Q23
Properties 374 374 374 374 374
Occupancy 95.1 % 95.0 % 95.1 % 95.0 % 95.1 %
Same store revenues $ 158,414 $ 159,654 $ 160,439 $ 164,810 $ 163,301
Same store operating expenses 48,867 49,766 48,755 52,638 50,204
Same store NOI $ 109,547 $ 109,888 $ 111,684 $ 112,172 $ 113,097
NOI margin 69.2 % 68.8 % 69.6 % 68.1 % 69.3 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 3.2 %
Portfolio Diversification
by Tenant (3)
Rental Income % of Total Quality Indicators
Kelsey-Seybold $ 29,851 5.6 %
Health system affiliated properties as % of NOI (3)
88.8 %
Common Spirit Health 19,729 3.7 %
Health system affiliated tenants as % of rental income (3)
59.7 %
Novant Health 15,763 3.0 %
Retention (trailing twelve months) (3)
92.5 %
Summit Health 14,888 2.8 %
In-house managed properties as % of square feet (3,4)
86.4 %
Providence Health & Services 14,238 2.7 %
Average remaining lease term (years) (3)
6.3
Remaining portfolio 436,584 82.2 %
Average building size (square feet) (3)
59,928
Total $ 531,053 100.0 % Average age (years) 17
Expirations (3)
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Thereafter
Occupied square feet 1,525,700 1,976,071 1,459,723 1,702,638 1,472,142 10,933,742
% of occupied square feet 8.0 % 10.4 % 7.7 % 8.9 % 7.7 % 57.3 %
Notes:
(1) Property count, occupancy, square feet and per square foot metrics exclude properties under development and all land parcels. Per square foot amounts are annualized.
(2) Includes 374 same store properties representing 17,875,716 square feet. See pages 18 and 19 for reconciliation.
(3) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non cash income. Retention includes month-to-month tenants retained.
(4) Excludes tenant managed properties.
5
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Relationship Investment History
Detail of Acquisitions/JVs (1)
2019 2020 2021 2022 1Q23 2Q23 19-23 Total
Count 27 12 35 27 11 2 114
Total $ 4,073,554 $ 910,217 $ 4,101,534 $ 2,785,739 $ 443,240 $ 145,094 $ 12,459,378
Low 7,550 6,201 5,000 6,485 19,967 34,532 5,000
Median 38,800 48,490 45,157 66,074 78,250 72,547 48,793
High 1,250,000 235,387 1,576,642 389,149 140,172 110,562 1,576,642
Investment Timing
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (2)
Yield
Construction Conversions (3)
Year 1 Yield Dispositions and Loan Payoffs Yield
April $ 41,636 4.1 % $ 55,319 1.0 % $ 24,385 9.6 %
May 2,887 6.1 % 23,604 2.4 % 182,090 4.1 %
June 119,513 4.0 % 245,220 4.3 % 226,745 3.9 %
Total $ 164,036 4.1 % $ 324,143 3.6 % $ 433,220 4.3 %
Notes:
(1) Includes non-yielding asset acquisitions.
(2) Excludes land acquisitions and includes advances for non-real estate loans and excludes advances for development loans.
(3) Includes expansion conversions.
6
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership, except per bed / unit / square foot)
Gross Investment Activity
Second Quarter 2023
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 1 204 units $ 169,275 $ 145,094
Loan funding 18,942
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
1 164,036 4.1 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 37 6,221 units 140,744
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 191 units 7,311
Outpatient Medical 8 675,386 sf 59,891
Total development projects 46 207,946
Expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 2 160 units 6,212
Outpatient Medical 7 323,449 sf 35,700
Total expansion projects 9 41,912
Total development funding 55 249,858 7.0 %
Total gross investments 413,894 5.8 %
Dispositions and Loan Payoffs (4)
Seniors Housing Operating 4 371 units 559,960 207,745
Loan payoffs 43,385
Leasehold termination 7 1,112 beds 163,750 182,090
Total dispositions and loan payoffs (5)
11 433,220 4.3 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ (19,326)
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions and pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yield represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in-substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan payoffs and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
7
Investment
(dollars in thousands, except per bed / unit / square foot, at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Gross Investment Activity
Year-To-Date 2023
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 3 395 units $ 137,972 $ 165,061
Seniors Housing Triple-net 8 612 units 122,217 74,797
Outpatient Medical 29 1,297,917 sf 268 348,476
Loan funding 104,234
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
40 692,568 6.8 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 40 6,638 units 290,043
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 191 units 13,264
Outpatient Medical 9 692,221 sf 125,292
Total development projects 50 428,599
Expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 2 160 units 9,554
Outpatient Medical 8 355,294 sf 68,650
Total expansion projects 10 78,204
Total development funding 60 506,803 6.9 %
Total gross investments 1,199,371 6.9 %
Dispositions and Loan Payoffs (4)
Seniors Housing Operating 5 389 units 534,923 208,068
Seniors Housing Triple-net 1 57 units 35,088 2,000
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care — — beds — 74,279
Loan payoffs 58,855
Leasehold termination 7 1,112 beds 163,750 182,090
Total dispositions and loan payoffs (5)
13 525,292 5.2 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ 674,079
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions and pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans. Includes acquisition of additional ownership interest in existing properties which are excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yield represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded and capitalized interest for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in-substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan payoffs and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
8
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Summary (1)
Unit Mix
Facility MSA Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Commitment Amount Balance at 06/30/23
Estimated Conversion (3)
Seniors Housing Operating
Austin, TX 108 108 — — — $ 21,293 $ 16,051 3Q23
Boston, MA 167 — 91 48 28 72,790 54,026 4Q23
Charlotte, NC 328 328 — — — 59,233 53,072 3Q23 - 4Q23
Hartford, CT 128 128 — — — 21,934 21,934 4Q23
Hartford, CT 122 122 — — — 20,578 20,578 4Q23
Tampa, FL 206 206 — — — 49,685 17,477 4Q23 - 1Q24
Austin, TX 188 188 — — — 39,627 30,024 3Q23 - 1Q24
Cincinnati, OH 122 122 — — — 16,385 10,293 1Q24
Washington DC 302 — 190 89 23 156,276 107,099 2Q24
Phoenix, AZ 199 199 — — — 51,794 32,825 4Q23 - 2Q24
Phoenix, AZ 204 204 — — — 50,496 32,646 4Q23 - 2Q24
Kansas City, MO 134 134 — — — 20,887 20,887 2Q24
Dallas, TX 60 60 — — — 17,298 4,035 3Q23 - 2Q24
Washington DC 137 — 10 90 37 115,127 50,576 3Q24
Naples, FL 188 188 — — — 54,370 18,154 2Q24 - 3Q24
Sacramento, CA 100 — — 70 30 48,486 10,784 3Q24
Dallas, TX 55 55 — — — 16,035 8,248 1Q24 - 3Q24
Burley, UK 70 — — 45 25 10,284 2,467 3Q24
Peterborough, UK 80 — — 52 28 9,669 2,568 3Q24
Boston, MA 160 — 82 37 41 148,590 89,968 4Q24
Sherman, TX 237 237 — — — 75,626 8,311 2Q24 - 4Q24
Phoenix, AZ 110 110 — — — 40,195 9,220 2Q24 - 4Q24
Houston, TX 130 130 — — — 31,100 23,329 3Q23 - 4Q24
San Jose, CA 685 509 — 143 33 175,381 171,139 1Q25
San Jose, CA 158 — — 158 — 61,929 33,444 1Q25
Columbus, OH 409 409 — — — 82,069 20,855 2Q25
Killeen, TX 256 256 — — — 64,133 10,717 4Q23 - 2Q25
Little Rock, AR 283 283 — — — 13,893 5,920 3Q25
Sunrise Developments (2)
362 — — 208 154 86,281 57,137 3Q23 - 4Q24
Subtotal 5,688 3,976 373 940 399 1,631,444 943,784
Outpatient Medical Rentable Square Ft Preleased % Health System Affiliation Commitment Amount Balance at 06/30/23 Estimated Conversion
Houston, TX 16,830 100 % Yes 8,847 7,806 3Q23
Houston, TX 178,446 100 % Yes 108,068 50,749 4Q23
Houston, TX 121,368 100 % Yes 84,384 30,930 4Q23
Oklahoma City, OK 134,285 100 % Yes 89,928 79,363 2Q24
Santa Fe, NM 90,000 100 % Yes 45,977 10,171 3Q24
Houston, TX 50,323 100 % Yes 30,156 3,485 3Q24
Houston, TX 51,134 100 % Yes 28,723 416 3Q24
Subtotal 642,386 396,083 182,920
Total Development Projects $ 2,027,527 $ 1,126,704
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in-substance real estate) and excludes redevelopments and expansion projects. Commitment amount represents current cash amount funded plus unfunded commitments to complete development but excludes capitalized interest.
(2) Relates to four pr operties with a weighted-average owne rship of 34%.
(3) Estimated conversion ranges relate to projects to be delivered in phases.
9
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Funding Projections (1)
Projected Future Funding
Projects Beds / Units / Square Feet
Stable Yields (2)
2023 Funding Funding Thereafter Total Unfunded Commitments Committed Balances
Seniors Housing Operating 32 5,688 7.3 % $ 299,773 $ 387,887 $ 687,660 $ 1,631,444
Outpatient Medical 7 642,386 6.1 % 141,045 72,118 213,163 396,083
Total 39 7.1 % $ 440,818 $ 460,005 $ 900,823 $ 2,027,527
Development Project Conversion Estimates (1)
Quarterly Conversions Annual Conversions
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
1Q23 actual $ 57,473 0.4 % 6.7 % 2023 actual $ 372,735 2.6 % 8.0 %
2Q23 actual 315,262 3.0 % 8.2 % 2023 estimate 436,701 2.9 % 6.6 %
3Q23 estimate 69,714 0.2 % 7.4 % 2024 estimate 1,193,421 0.9 % 7.3 %
4Q23 estimate 366,987 3.4 % 6.4 % 2025 estimate 397,405 4.5 % 7.2 %
1Q24 estimate 105,697 — % 6.4 % Total $ 2,400,262 2.1 % 7.2 %
2Q24 estimate 432,656 1.0 % 7.1 %
3Q24 estimate 336,700 1.2 % 7.4 %
4Q24 estimate 318,368 0.6 % 7.6 %
1Q25 estimate 237,310 6.8 % 6.8 %
2Q25 estimate 146,202 0.8 % 7.8 %
3Q25 estimate 13,893 4.1 % 6.9 %
Total $ 2,400,262 2.1 % 7.2 %
Unstabilized Properties
3/31/2023 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions 6/30/2023 Properties Beds / Units
Seniors Housing Operating 50 (3) 5 (9) 43 6,111
Seniors Housing Triple-net 15 (1) — — 14 1,556
Total 65 (4) 5 (9) 57 7,667
Occupancy 3/31/2023 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions Progressions 6/30/2023 Properties
0% - 50% 30 — 5 (6) (3) 26
50% - 70% 24 — — (3) (3) 18
70% + 11 (4) — — 6 13
Total 65 (4) 5 (9) — 57
Occupancy 6/30/2023 Properties Months In Operation Revenues
% of Total Revenues (4)
Gross Investment Balance % of Total Gross Investment
0% - 50% 26 13 $ 57,430 0.9 % $ 888,438 2.1 %
50% - 70% 18 27 77,868 1.2 % 569,222 1.3 %
70% + 13 31 93,897 1.4 % 518,127 1.2 %
Total 57 22 $ 229,195 3.5 % $ 1,975,787 4.6 %
Notes:
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in-substance real estate) and excludes expansion projects. Projects expected to be delivered in phases over multiple quarters are reflected in the last quarter.
(2) Actual yields may vary.
(3) Includes expansion and development loan conversions.
(4) Percent of total revenues based on current quarter annualized pro rata total revenues on page 12.
10
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Components of NAV
Stabilized NOI Pro rata beds/units/square feet
Seniors Housing Operating (1)
$ 1,072,692 88,143 units
Seniors Housing Triple-net 396,116 27,097 units
Outpatient Medical 489,144 20,236,315 square feet
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 233,084 24,553 beds
Total In-Place NOI (2)
2,191,036
Incremental stabilized NOI (3)
96,338
Total stabilized NOI $ 2,287,374
Obligations
Lines of credit and commercial paper (4)
$ —
Senior unsecured notes (4)
13,695,104
Secured debt (4)
3,468,103
Financing lease liabilities 49,393
Total debt $ 17,212,600
Add (Subtract):
Other liabilities (assets), net (5)
$ 451,087
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,299,069)
Net obligations $ 15,364,618
Other Assets
Land parcels $ 261,039
Effective Interest Rate (8)
Real estate loans receivable (6)
1,586,864 11.0%
Non-real estate loans receivable (7)
257,218 11.4%
Joint venture real estate loans receivables (9)
254,961 5.7%
Other investments (10)
15,205
Property dispositions (11)
960,846
Development properties: (12)
Current balance 1,208,758
Unfunded commitments 1,064,081
Committed balances $ 2,272,839
Projected yield 7.1 %
Projected NOI $ 161,372
Common Shares Outstanding (13)
510,024
Notes:
(1) Includes $20,830,000 attributable to our proportional share of income from unconsolidated management company investments.
(2) See page 18 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents incremental NOI from Seniors Housing Operating unstabilized properties.
(4) Represents principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, deferred loan expenses or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet. Includes $1,059,628,000 of for eign secured debt.
(5) Includes liabilities / (assets) that impact cash or NOI and excludes non real estate loans and non-cash items such as the following (in thousands):
Unearned revenues $ 414,089
Below market tenant lease intangibles, net 25,300
Deferred taxes, net (39,829)
Intangible assets, net (156,749)
Other non-cash liabilities / (assets), net 8,181
Total non-cash liabilities/(assets), net $ 250,992
(6) Represents $1,599,770,000 of real estate loans, excluding development loans and including certain in substance real estate developments and held to maturity debt securities, and net of $12,906,000 of credit allowances.
(7) Represents $430,110,000 of non-real estate loans, net of $172,892,000 of credit allowances.
(8) Average cash-pay interest rates are 7.1%,1.1% and 5.7% for real estate, non-real estate loans and joint venture real estate loans, respectively. Rates exclude non-accrual/interest-free loans.
(9) Represents partners' share of Welltower loans made to our partners in select joint ventures, secured by their interest in the joint venture properties.
(10) Primarily represents the estimated fair value of 3.4% ownership in Seniors Housing Operating portfolios excluded from IPNOI.
(11) Represents proceeds from expected property dispositions in the next twelve months.
(12) See pages 9-10. Also includes expansion projects.
(13) Includes OP Units and DownREIT Units.
11
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Net Operating Income (1,2)
2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 2Q23
Revenues:
Seniors Housing Operating
Resident fees and services $ 1,000,571 $ 1,057,814 $ 1,091,043 $ 1,138,916 $ 1,173,630
Interest income 1,642 2,210 2,388 2,318 1,850
Other income (1,251) 1,729 1,715 2,510 3,495
Total revenues 1,000,962 1,061,753 1,095,146 1,143,744 1,178,975
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Rental income 123,557 116,233 122,267 119,786 118,115
Interest income 31,725 32,726 31,837 31,540 32,657
Other income 1,786 1,307 1,361 1,675 1,202
Total revenues 157,068 150,266 155,465 153,001 151,974
Outpatient Medical
Rental income 163,808 170,051 174,182 182,044 185,133
Interest income 65 80 86 91 95
Other income 2,347 1,859 2,548 3,055 1,574
Total revenues 166,220 171,990 176,816 185,190 186,802
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Rental income 68,598 70,356 71,021 80,423 75,766
Interest income 5,499 5,760 5,982 6,367 8,264
Other income — 513 153 193 65,490
Total revenues 74,097 76,629 77,156 86,983 149,520
Corporate
Other income 3,665 3,942 7,714 5,147 16,807
Total revenues 3,665 3,942 7,714 5,147 16,807
Total
Rental income 355,963 356,640 367,470 382,253 379,014
Resident fees and services 1,000,571 1,057,814 1,091,043 1,138,916 1,173,630
Interest Income 38,931 40,776 40,293 40,316 42,866
Other Income 6,547 9,350 13,491 12,580 88,568
Total revenues 1,402,012 1,464,580 1,512,297 1,574,065 1,684,078
Property operating expenses:
Seniors Housing Operating 777,178 831,556 866,482 894,981 902,068
Seniors Housing Triple-net 7,799 7,710 6,924 7,917 7,996
Outpatient Medical 51,177 53,684 53,259 58,977 59,358
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 3,916 4,034 3,426 4,040 2,827
Corporate 2,645 5,794 5,086 3,877 4,135
Total property operating expenses 842,715 902,778 935,177 969,792 976,384
Net operating income:
Seniors Housing Operating 223,784 230,197 228,664 248,763 276,907
Seniors Housing Triple-net 149,269 142,556 148,541 145,084 143,978
Outpatient Medical 115,043 118,306 123,557 126,213 127,444
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 70,181 72,595 73,730 82,943 146,693
Corporate 1,020 (1,852) 2,628 1,270 12,672
Net operating income $ 559,297 $ 561,802 $ 577,120 $ 604,273 $ 707,694
Note:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 17. Includes amounts from investments sold or held for sale. NOI related to DownREITs included at 100%. Excludes NOI recognized from the leasehold interest for the NHI leasehold portfolio. The lease was terminated effective April 1, 2022, and the related lease termination income was excluded from NOI.
(2) The results related to the 205 properties previously reported as Health System have been reclassified to Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care for all periods.
12
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Leverage and EBITDA Reconciliations (1)
Twelve Months Ended Three Months Ended
June 30, 2023 June 30, 2023
Net income (loss) $ 134,122 $ 106,342
Interest expense 576,813 152,337
Income tax expense (benefit) 5,717 3,503
Depreciation and amortization 1,377,042 341,945
EBITDA 2,093,694 604,127
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 58,751 40,332
Stock-based compensation 32,299 10,491
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 95 1
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net 4,780 2,168
Impairment of assets 31,217 1,086
Provision for loan losses, net 14,192 2,456
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 9,373 1,280
Other expenses 74,249 11,069
Leasehold interest termination (2)
(65,485) (65,485)
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 15,760 3,568
Total adjustments 175,231 6,966
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,268,925 $ 611,093
Interest Coverage Ratios
Interest expense $ 576,813 $ 152,337
Capitalized interest 40,830 11,870
Non-cash interest expense (21,946) (5,824)
Total interest $ 595,697 $ 158,383
EBITDA $ 2,093,694 $ 604,127
Interest coverage ratio 3.51 x 3.81 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,268,925 $ 611,093
Adjusted Interest coverage ratio 3.81 x 3.86 x
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios
Total interest $ 595,697 $ 158,383
Secured debt principal amortization 56,545 13,839
Total fixed charges $ 652,242 $ 172,222
EBITDA $ 2,093,694 $ 604,127
Fixed charge coverage ratio 3.21 x 3.51 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,268,925 $ 611,093
Adjusted Fixed charge coverage ratio 3.48 x 3.55 x
Net Debt to EBITDA Ratios
Total debt (3)
$ 16,040,530
Less: cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,299,069)
Net debt $ 13,741,461
EBITDA Annualized $ 2,416,508
Net debt to EBITDA ratio 5.69 x
Adjusted EBITDA Annualized $ 2,444,372
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 5.62 x
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 17.
(2) Primarily related to the gain associated with the loss of control and derecognition of leasehold interests in 7 properties.
(3) Includes unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments and financing lease liabilities of $49,393,000. Excludes operating lease liabilities of $299,377,000 related to ASC 842 adoption.
13
Financial
(in thousands except share price)
Leverage and Current Capitalization (1)
% of Total
Book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — 0.00 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
16,040,530 44.64 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,299,069) (6.40) %
Net debt to consolidated book capitalization $ 13,741,461 38.24 %
Total equity (4)
22,193,114 61.76 %
Consolidated book capitalization $ 35,934,575 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
971,512
Total book capitalization $ 36,906,087
Undepreciated book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — 0.00 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
16,040,530 36.02 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,299,069) (5.16) %
Net debt to consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 13,741,461 30.86 %
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 8,599,622 19.31 %
Total equity (4)
22,193,114 49.83 %
Consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 44,534,197 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
971,512
Total undepreciated book capitalization $ 45,505,709
Enterprise value
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — 0.00 %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
16,040,530 28.73 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,299,069) (4.12) %
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value $ 13,741,461 24.61 %
Common shares outstanding 508,159
Period end share price 80.89
Common equity market capitalization $ 41,104,982 73.62 %
Noncontrolling interests (4)
988,673 1.77 %
Consolidated enterprise value $ 55,835,116 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
971,512
Total enterprise value $ 56,806,628
Secured debt as % of total assets
Secured debt (2)
$ 2,460,349 5.06 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 48,663,757
Total debt as % of gross asset value
Total debt (2)(3)
$ 16,040,530 32.96 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 48,663,757
Unsecured debt as % of unencumbered assets
Unsecured debt (2)
$ 13,530,788 31.34 %
Unencumbered gross assets (7)
$ 43,176,774
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 17.
(2) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts and other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(3) Includes financing lease liabiliti es of $49,393,000 and excludes operating lease liabilities of $299,377,000 rel ated to ASC 842 adoption.
(4) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our balance sheet.
(5) Net of Welltower's share of unconsolidated debt and minority partners' share of Welltower consolidated debt.
(6) Gross asset value equals total assets plus accumulated depreciation as reflected on the balance sheet.
(7) Unencumbered gross assets equals gross asset value for consolidated properties that are not financed with secured debt.
14
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Debt Maturities and Scheduled Principal Amortization (1)
Year
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3,4,5,6,7)
Consolidated Secured Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (8)
% of Total
Wtd. Avg. Interest Rate (9)
2023 $ — $ — $ 398,560 $ 216,141 $ (107,924) $ 506,777 2.95 % 5.35 %
2024 — 1,350,000 470,448 177,251 (93,112) 1,904,587 11.10 % 4.16 %
2025 — 1,260,000 298,553 536,588 (45,844) 2,049,297 11.94 % 3.99 %
2026 — 700,000 144,144 82,550 (20,573) 906,121 5.28 % 4.18 %
2027 — 1,915,659 190,356 120,330 (39,121) 2,187,224 12.74 % 4.62 %
2028 — 2,483,995 102,812 25,992 (13,131) 2,599,668 15.15 % 3.80 %
2029 — 1,050,000 289,827 35,972 (936) 1,374,863 8.01 % 3.75 %
2030 — 750,000 57,124 30,776 (127) 837,773 4.88 % 3.14 %
2031 — 1,350,000 7,038 33,303 (133) 1,390,208 8.10 % 2.77 %
2032 — 1,050,000 48,015 3,401 (138) 1,101,278 6.42 % 4.37 %
Thereafter — 1,785,450 489,714 70,564 (40,317) 2,305,411 13.43 % 5.02 %
Totals $ — $ 13,695,104 $ 2,496,591 $ 1,332,868 $ (361,356) $ 17,163,207 100.00 %
Weighted Avg. Interest Rate (9)
— 4.00 % 4.70 % 4.35 % 4.93 % 4.11 %
Weighted Avg. Maturity Years — 6.3 4.7 4.1 3.0 6.0
% Floating Rate Debt (8)
100.00 % 10.21 % 30.36 % 20.02 % 44.92 % 13.18 %
Debt by Local Currency (1)
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3,4,5,6,7)
Consolidated Secured Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (8)
Investment Hedges (10)
United States $ — $ 11,945,000 $ 1,542,508 $ 1,007,250 $ (141,283) $ 14,353,475 $ —
United Kingdom — 1,334,445 — — — 1,334,445 2,402,901
Canada — 415,659 954,083 325,618 (220,073) 1,475,287 812,424
Totals $ — $ 13,695,104 $ 2,496,591 $ 1,332,868 $ (361,356) $ 17,163,207 $ 3,215,325
Notes:
(1) Represents principal amounts due excluding unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(2) Our unsecured commercial paper program and our unsecured revolving credit facility had a zero balance as of June 30, 2023. The unsecured revolving credit facility is comprised of a $1,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2026 and a $3,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2025. Both tranches may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. Commercial paper borrowings are backstopped by the unsecured revolving credit facility.
(3) 2027 includes a $1,000,000,000 unsecured term loan and a CAD $250,000,000 unsecured term loan (approximately $188,936,000 USD at June 30, 2023). The loans mature on July 19, 2026. The interest rates on the loans are adjusted SOFR + 0.85% for USD and CDOR + 0.85% for CAD. Both term loans may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option.
(4) 2027 includes CAD $300,000,000 of 2.95% senior unsecured notes (approximately $226,723,000 USD at June 30, 2023) that matures on January 15, 2027.
(5) 2028 includes $1,035,000,000 of 2.75% exchangeable senior unsecured notes that mature on May 15, 2028 unless earlier exchanged, purchased or redeemed.
(6) 2028 includes £550,000,000 of 4.80% senior unsecured notes (approximately $698,995,000 USD at June 30, 2023). The notes mature on November 20, 2028.
(7) Thereafter includes £500,000,000 of 4.50% senior unsecured notes (approximately $635,450,000 USD at June 30, 2023). The notes mature on December 1, 2034.
(8) Excludes operating lease liabilities of $299,377,000 and finance lease liabilities of $49,393,000 related to ASC 842 adoption.
(9) Based on variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of June 30, 2023. The interest rate on the unsecured revolving credit facility is adjusted SOFR + 0.775%. Commercial paper, senior notes and secured debt average interest rate represents the face value note rate. Includes the impact of notional swaps and caps to convert fixed rate debt to SOFR-based floating rate debt, and SOFR-based floating rate debt, LIBOR-based floating rate debt and CDOR-based floating rate debt to fixed rate debt.
(10) Represents notional value of foreign currency derivative contracts at end of period spot FX rates. The fair market value of the gains (losses) of these contracts is currently USD $97,983,000, as represented in other assets (liabilities) on the balance sheet. We supplement our local currency debt with foreign currency derivative contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our international investments. Currently, our foreign currency derivatives are comprised of cross-currency swaps.
15
Glossary
Age: Current year, less the year built, adjusted for major renovations. Average age is weighted by pro rata NOI.
Cap-ex, Tenant Improvements, Leasing Commissions: Represents amounts incurred for: 1) recurring and non-recurring capital expenditures required to maintain and re-tenant our properties; 2) second generation tenant improvements; and 3) leasing commissions paid to third party leasing agents to secure new tenants.
Construction Conversion: Represents completed construction projects that were placed into service and began generating NOI.
EBITDAR: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDAR and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDAR Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDAR to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDAR coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
EBITDARM: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDARM and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDARM Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDARM to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDARM coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations, assuming that management fees are not paid. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
Health System - Affiliated: Outpatient medical properties are considered affiliated with a health system if one or more of the following conditions are met: 1) the land parcel is contained within the physical boundaries of a hospital campus; 2) the land parcel is located adjacent to the campus; 3) the building is physically connected to the hospital regardless of the land ownership structure; 4) a ground lease is maintained with a health system entity; 5) a master lease is maintained with a health system entity; 6) significant square footage is leased to a health system entity; 7) the property includes an ambulatory surgery center with a hospital partnership interest; or (8) a significant square footage is leased to a physician group that is either employed, directly or indirectly by a health system, or has a significant clinical and financial affiliation with the health system.
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care: Includes all skilled nursing, rehabilitation and long-term/post-acute care facilities where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement and are subject to triple-net operating leases. Most of these facilities focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.
MSA: For the United States and Canada, we use the Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Census Metropolitan Areas as defined by Statistics Canada, respectively. For the United Kingdom, we generally use the Metro Region as defined by EuroStat with Greater London defined as a 55-mile radius around the city’s center.
Occupancy: Outpatient Medical occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied, including month-to-month leases, as of the date reported. Occupancy for all other property types represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the most recent quarter of available data and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and has not independently verified the information. Occupancy metrics are reflected at our pro rata share.
Outpatient Medical: Outpatient medical buildings include properties offering ambulatory medical services such as prima ry and secondary care, outpatient surgery, diagnostic procedures and rehabilitation. These properties are typically affiliated with a health system and may be located on a hospital campus. They are specifically designed and constructed for use by health care professionals to provide services to patients. They also include medical office buildings that typically contain sole and group physician practices and may provide laboratory and other specialty services.
Seniors Housing Operating (SHO): Includes independent, assisted living and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. structured to take advantage of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007.
Seniors Housing Triple-net (SH-NNN): Includes independent, assisted living, and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. subject to triple-net operating leases and loans receivable.
Square Feet : Net rentable square feet calculated utilizing Building Owners and Managers Association measurement standards.
Stable: Generally, a triple-net rental property is considered stable (versus unstabilized or under development) when it has achieved EBITDAR coverage of 1.00x or greater for three consecutive months or, if targeted performance has not been achieved, 12 months following the budgeted stabilization date. Triple-net properties for which income is recognized on a cash basis and for which substantially all contractual rent during the period has not been collected are excluded from the stable portfolio. A Seniors Housing Operating facility is considered stable upon the earliest of 90% occupancy, NOI at or above the underwritten target or 12 months past the underwritten stabilization date. Excludes assets held for sale and assets disposed of during the current quarter.
Unstabilized: An acquisition that does not meet the stable criteria upon closing or a construction property that has opened but not yet reached stabilization.
16
Supplemental Reporting Measures
We believe that revenues and net income, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR, SS ExpPOR, NOI, In-Place NOI ("IPNOI") and Same Store NOI ("SSNOI") to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and are unallocable to the properties, or transaction costs. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. IPNOI represents NOI excluding interest income, other income and non-IPNOI and adjusted for timing of current quarter portfolio changes such as acquisitions, development conversions, segment transitions, dispositions and investments held for sale. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata version of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and includes any revenue or expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses/impairments on properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and secured debt principal amortization. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA, book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None of the supplemental reporting measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Multi-period amounts may not equal the sum of the individual quarterly amounts due to rounding.
17
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands)
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
NOI Reconciliation 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 2Q23
Net income (loss) $ 95,672 $ (2,653) $ 1,798 $ 28,635 $ 106,342
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net 3,532 (1,064) 4,423 (747) 2,168
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 7,058 6,698 4,650 7,071 40,332
Income tax expense (benefit) 3,065 3,257 (4,088) 3,045 3,503
Other expenses 35,166 15,481 24,954 22,745 11,069
Impairment of assets — 4,356 13,146 12,629 1,086
Provision for loan losses, net 165 490 10,469 777 2,456
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 603 2 87 5 1
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (1,407) 6,905 258 930 1,280
General and administrative expenses 36,554 34,811 41,319 44,371 44,287
Depreciation and amortization 310,295 353,699 342,286 339,112 341,945
Interest expense 127,750 139,682 140,391 144,403 152,337
Consolidated net operating income 618,453 561,664 579,693 602,976 706,806
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
23,648 27,374 24,950 26,354 25,150
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(82,804) (27,236) (27,523) (25,057) (24,262)
Pro rata net operating income (NOI) (3)
$ 559,297 $ 561,802 $ 577,120 $ 604,273 $ 707,694
In-Place NOI Reconciliation
At Welltower pro rata ownership Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Corporate Total
Revenues $ 1,178,975 $ 151,974 $ 186,802 $ 149,520 $ 16,807 $ 1,684,078
Property operating expenses (902,068) (7,996) (59,358) (2,827) (4,135) (976,384)
NOI (3)
276,907 143,978 127,444 146,693 12,672 707,694
Adjust:
Interest income (1,850) (32,657) (95) (8,264) — (42,866)
Other income (3,260) (352) (46) (65,490) (12,719) (81,867)
Sold / held for sale (3,063) (1,331) 17 (1,760) — (6,137)
Non operational (4)
2,035 — (186) (102) — 1,747
Non In-Place NOI (5)
(3,871) (10,609) (4,848) (12,806) 47 (32,087)
Timing adjustments (6)
1,275 — — — — 1,275
Total adjustments (8,734) (44,949) (5,158) (88,422) (12,672) (159,935)
In-Place NOI 268,173 99,029 122,286 58,271 — 547,759
Annualized In-Place NOI $ 1,072,692 $ 396,116 $ 489,144 $ 233,084 $ — $ 2,191,036
Same Store Property Reconciliation
Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Total
Total properties 957 373 437 234 2,001
Recent acquisitions/ development conversions (7)
(88) (13) (41) — (142)
Under development (33) — (7) — (40)
Under redevelopment (8)
(8) — (4) (6) (18)
Current held for sale (31) (12) (2) (28) (73)
Land parcels, loans and sub-leases (21) (8) (9) — (38)
Transitions (9)
(89) (13) — (150) (252)
Other (10)
(13) — — (2) (15)
Same store properties 674 327 374 48 1,423
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents Welltower's pro rata share of NOI. See page 12 for more information.
(4) Primarily includes development properties and land parcels.
(5) Primarily represents non-cash NOI.
(6) Represents timing adjustments for current quarter acquisitions, construction conversions and segment or operator transitions.
(7) Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the same store pool five full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy.
(8) Redevelopment properties will enter the same store pool after five full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion.
(9) Transitioned properties will enter the same store pool after five full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new structure.
(10) Represents properties that are either closed or being closed.
18
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Same Store NOI Reconciliation 2Q22 3Q22 4Q22 1Q23 2Q23 Y/o/Y
Seniors Housing Operating
NOI $ 223,784 $ 230,197 $ 228,664 $ 248,763 $ 276,907
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (375) (349) (348) (319) (152)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (35,269) (49,185) (41,922) (50,514) (54,225)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(1,209) (430) 800 (111) (925)
Normalizing adjustment for government grants (2)
(13,061) (2,188) (2,360) (18) (5,352)
Other normalizing adjustments (3)
1,546 1,160 4,649 4,449 1,610
SSNOI (4)
175,416 179,205 189,483 202,250 217,863 24.2 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net
NOI 149,269 142,556 148,541 145,084 143,978
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (13,274) (10,845) (10,365) (12,531) (10,040)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (44,437) (41,042) (45,319) (39,248) (39,595)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(818) 295 371 (212) (768)
SSNOI 90,740 90,964 93,228 93,093 93,575 3.1 %
Outpatient Medical
NOI 115,043 118,306 123,557 126,213 127,444
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (3,788) (4,238) (4,835) (4,666) (4,319)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (2,057) (3,316) (6,885) (9,115) (10,380)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
437 192 (153) 180 (12)
Other normalizing adjustments (3)
(88) (1,056) — (440) 364
SSNOI 109,547 109,888 111,684 112,172 113,097 3.2 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
NOI 70,181 72,595 73,730 82,943 146,693
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (725) (1,654) (1,526) (1,538) (1,160)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (50,810) (51,674) (53,239) (61,910) (125,838)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(123) (84) (16) (22) (33)
Other normalizing adjustments (3)
— (327) — — —
SSNOI 18,523 18,856 18,949 19,473 19,662 6.1 %
Corporate
NOI 1,020 (1,852) 2,628 1,270 12,672
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (1,020) 1,852 (2,628) (1,270) (12,672)
SSNOI — — — — —
Total
NOI 559,297 561,802 577,120 604,273 707,694
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (18,162) (17,086) (17,074) (19,054) (15,671)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (133,593) (143,365) (149,993) (162,057) (242,710)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(1,713) (27) 1,002 (165) (1,738)
Normalizing adjustments, net (11,603) (2,411) 2,289 3,991 (3,378)
SSNOI $ 394,226 $ 398,913 $ 413,344 $ 426,988 $ 444,197 12.7 %
Notes:
(1) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.37 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.20 .
(2) Represents normalizing adjustment related to amounts recognized related to the Health and Human Services Provider Relief Fund in the United States and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
(3) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type.
(4) SHO SSNOI includes expenses that are directly attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic net of any reimbursements exclusive of those included in (2) above.
19
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands, except RevPOR, SS RevPOR and SSNOI/unit)
SHO RevPOR Reconciliation United States United Kingdom Canada Total
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 934,244 $ 113,875 $ 116,320 $ 1,164,439
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to Welltower (1)
36,857 1,657 24,527 63,041
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(17,100) (8,148) (23,257) (48,505)
Pro rata SHO revenues (3)
954,001 107,384 117,590 1,178,975
SHO interest and other income (12,087) (37) (951) (13,075)
SHO revenues attributable to sold and held for sale properties (5,215) (4,927) (14,114) (24,256)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(1,954) (4,278) (2,154) (8,386)
SHO local revenues 934,745 98,142 100,371 1,133,258
Average occupied units/month 54,688 3,748 13,084 71,520
RevPOR/month in USD $ 5,713 $ 8,752 $ 2,564 $ 5,296
RevPOR/month in local currency (4)
£ 7,293 $ 3,512
Reconciliations of SHO SS RevPOR Growth, SSNOI Growth and SSNOI/Unit
United States United Kingdom Canada Total
2Q22 2Q23 2Q22 2Q23 2Q22 2Q23 2Q22 2Q23
SHO SS RevPOR Growth
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 859,987 $ 934,244 $ 99,647 $ 113,875 $ 111,576 $ 116,320 $ 1,071,210 $ 1,164,439
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
28,910 36,857 — 1,657 22,546 24,527 51,456 63,041
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(89,739) (17,100) (9,339) (8,148) (22,626) (23,257) (121,704) (48,505)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
799,158 954,001 90,308 107,384 111,496 117,590 1,000,962 1,178,975
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (835) (1,656) — — (72) (350) (907) (2,006)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (148,590) (220,863) (47,971) (59,706) (14,792) (18,207) (211,353) (298,776)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
16,597 — (1,899) (1,980) (6,587) (1,942) 8,111 (3,922)
SHO SS RevPOR revenues (5)
$ 666,330 $ 731,482 $ 40,438 $ 45,698 $ 90,045 $ 97,091 $ 796,813 $ 874,271
Avg. occupied units/month (6)
41,629 42,595 1,780 1,903 11,128 11,290 54,537 55,788
SHO SS RevPOR (7)
$ 5,350 $ 5,740 $ 7,593 $ 8,027 $ 2,705 $ 2,874 $ 4,884 $ 5,238
SS RevPOR YOY growth 7.3 % 5.7 % 6.3 % 7.3 %
SHO SSNOI Growth
Consolidated SHO NOI $ 237,393 $ 229,006 $ 16,579 $ 17,497 $ 27,939 $ 32,749 $ 281,911 $ 279,252
Unconsolidated SHO NOI attributable to WELL (1)
4,956 5,987 — (389) 6,840 8,031 11,796 13,629
SHO NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(63,731) (8,574) (1,278) (1,585) (4,914) (5,815) (69,923) (15,974)
SHO pro rata NOI (3)
178,618 226,419 15,301 15,523 29,865 34,965 223,784 276,907
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (375) (152) — — — — (375) (152)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (23,483) (41,470) (7,816) (6,672) (3,970) (6,083) (35,269) (54,225)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
872 24 (322) (374) (1,759) (575) (1,209) (925)
Normalizing adjustment for government grants (8)
(12,045) (5,352) (1,028) — 12 — (13,061) (5,352)
Other normalizing adjustments (9)
1,546 1,610 — — — — 1,546 1,610
SHO pro rata SSNOI (5)
$ 145,133 $ 181,079 $ 6,135 $ 8,477 $ 24,148 $ 28,307 $ 175,416 $ 217,863
SHO SSNOI growth 24.8 % 38.2 % 17.2 % 24.2 %
SHO SSNOI/Unit
Trailing four quarters' SSNOI (5)
$ 649,914 $ 32,024 $ 106,863 $ 788,801
Average units in service (10)
53,269 2,251 14,055 69,575
SSNOI/unit in USD $ 12,201 $ 14,227 $ 7,603 $ 11,337
SSNOI/unit in local currency (4)
£ 11,856 $ 10,415
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents SHO revenues/NOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 12 for more information.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.37 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.20 .
(5) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues/SSNOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 19 for more information.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
(8) Represents normalizing adjustment for amounts recognized related to the Health and Human Services Provider Relief Fund in the United States and similar programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
(9) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than .50% of SSNOI growth.
(10) Represents average units in service for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
20
Forward-Looking Statement and Risk Factors
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This document contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “pro forma,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower’s actual results to differ materially from Welltower’s expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower’s ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters and other acts of God affecting Welltower’s properties; Welltower’s ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower’s ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower’s properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower’s financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates; Welltower’s ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower’s reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Additional Information
The information in this supplemental information package should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our earnings press release d ated July 31, 2023 an d other information filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Supplemental Reporting Measures and reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are an integral part of the information presented herein.
You can access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act at www.welltower.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You can also review these SEC filings and other information by accessing the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors.” Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the SEC. The information on or connected to our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of, or incorporated into this supplemental information package.
About Welltower
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), a REIT and S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. Welltower invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower, owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available at www.welltower.com.
21
