---
doc_type: sec_filing
source: sec_edgar
ticker: WMT
accession_number: 0000104169-26-000102
form_type: 10-Q
items:
- '2'
- '3'
filed_date: '2026-05-29'
filing_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/104169/000010416926000102/wmt-20260430.htm
press_release_url: ''
tickers:
- WMT
themes: []
ingestion_date: '2026-06-29'
extraction_source: v3 SEC filings pipeline (sec_filings.py); EDGAR; claude-extracted
  themes
---

# WMT 10-Q — filed 2026-05-29

## Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Overview
This discussion, which presents Walmart Inc.'s ("Walmart," the "Company," "our," "us" or "we") results for periods occurring in the fiscal year ending January 31, 2027 ("fiscal 2027") and the fiscal year ended January 31, 2026 ("fiscal 2026"), should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the three months ended April 30, 2026, and the accompanying notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended January 31, 2026, the accompanying notes and the related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2026.
From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by its chief operating decision maker. Beginning in February 2026, the Company updated its segment allocation methodology for certain corporate overhead allocations and, accordingly, revised the prior period amounts for comparability.
Recent Developments, Macroeconomic Conditions and Potential Impacts
We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to the following factors: tariffs and trade restrictions, including potential refunds; inflationary trends; fluctuations in global currencies; swings in macroeconomic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence; changes in employment trends; volatility in fuel prices; and supply chain pressures, any of which may impact our results. While we operate in a highly dynamic tariff environment, less than one third of what we sell in the U.S. is imported, with most of our imports coming from China,Vietnam, Mexico, India and Canada. We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs. Our operating results are influenced in part by our sourcing, pricing, merchandising, inventory management and other strategies in response to cost increases, which are further discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information on certain risks, factors, and uncertainties that can affect our operating results and an investment in our securities can be found herein under " Item 1A. Risk Factors " and " Item 5. Other Information ."
The Company is participating in the process established by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection for refunds of tariffs that the Company paid as the importer of record under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The timing, amounts and ultimate resolution of any refunds remain uncertain and subject to ongoing legal and administrative developments. Accordingly, the Company did not recognize any amounts related to these claims in the three months ended April 30, 2026.
For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to " Results of Operations " below.
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs. At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate. We define our financial priorities as follows:
• Growth - serve customers through a seamless omnichannel experience;
• Margin - improve our operating income margin through productivity initiatives as well as category and business mix; and
• Returns - improve our Return on Investment through margin improvement and disciplined capital spend.
Growth
Our objective of prioritizing growth means we will focus on serving customers and members however they want to shop through our omnichannel business model. This includes increasing comparable store and club sales through increasing membership through Walmart+ and at Sam's Club U.S., accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expansion of omnichannel initiatives that complement our strategy.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year. Our discussion of our comparable sales below refers to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar) as provided in our quarterly earnings releases. We report on comparable sales in the U.S. as we believe it is a meaningful metric within the context of the U.S. retail market where there is a single currency, one inflationary market and generally consistent store and club formats from year to year.
17
Table of Contents
Calendar comparable sales, as well as the impact of fuel, for the three months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, were as follows:
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 2026 2025
With Fuel Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S. 4.3 % 3.1 % 0.3 % 0.0 %
Sam's Club U.S. 5.9 % 2.8 % 2.1 % (2.6) %
Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 4.3% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, driven by growth in transactions and average ticket, reflecting strength in grocery and general merchandise. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 5.2% to comparable sales for the three months ended April 30, 2026. This growth reflects continued strength in customer and Walmart+ member engagement with omnichannel offerings, which was primarily driven by store-fulfilled delivery.
Sam's Club U.S. comparable sales increased 5.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, with growth in transactions and unit volumes, reflecting strength in grocery and general merchandise. Additionally, higher fuel sales, driven by higher fuel prices and volumes, positively impacted comparable sales by 2.1% for three months ended April 30, 2026. Sam's Club U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 3.1% to comparable sales for the three months ended April 30, 2026, reflecting continued strength in member engagement with omnichannel offerings, such as club-fulfilled delivery.
Margin
Our objective of prioritizing margin focuses on growth with a focus on incremental margin accretion through a combination of productivity improvements, as well as category and business mix. We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs, and we operate with discipline by managing expenses and optimizing the efficiency of how we work. We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses. Additionally, we focus on our mix of businesses, including expanding our ecosystem in higher margin areas, such as digital advertising. Our objective over the long-term is to achieve operating income leverage, which we define as growing operating income at a faster rate than net sales.
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Amounts in millions) 2026 2025
Net sales $ 175,684 $ 163,981
Percentage change from comparable period 7.1 % 2.5 %
Operating income $ 7,493 $ 7,135
Percentage change from comparable period 5.0 % 4.3 %
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit (1)
24.3 % 24.2 %
Operating expenses 21.2 % 20.8 %
Operating income 4.3 % 4.4 %
(1) Gross profit defined as net sales less cost of sales.
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate") increased 6 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year, primarily due to the Walmart U.S. segment, driven by merchandise mix shifts and growth in higher margin businesses, including advertising, partially offset by higher fuel costs within our supply chain and increased eCommerce fulfillment costs in the Sam's Club U.S. segment.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 33 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year, primarily driven by higher depreciation related to our capital investments, certain business reorganization charges of $0.2 billion within the Walmart U.S. segment and Corporate and support related to strategic efforts to align our global platforms, as well as higher associate healthcare benefit costs related to increased enrollment and medical cost inflation in the U.S.
Operating income as a percentage of net sales decreased 8 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, primarily due to the factors described above.
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time. We measure return on capital with our return on investment and free cash flow metrics. In addition, we provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section.
18
Table of Contents
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA") and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess our return on capital. ROA is the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP") while ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because it uses financial measures that differ from those used in ROA, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. ROA is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period. We define ROI as operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense for the trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during the period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period. Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
For the Trailing Twelve Months Ended April 30,
(Amounts in millions) 2026 2025
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income $ 23,121 $ 19,489
Denominator
Average total assets (1)
$ 275,990 $ 258,213
Return on assets (ROA) 8.4 % 7.5 %
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income $ 30,183 $ 29,642
+ Interest income 354 464
+ Depreciation and amortization 14,654 13,214
+ Rent 2,493 2,358
= ROI operating income $ 47,684 $ 45,678
Denominator
Average total assets (1)
$ 275,990 $ 258,213
' + Average accumulated depreciation and amortization (1)
131,424 121,844
' - Average accounts payable (1)
60,288 56,886
- Average accrued liabilities (1)
26,808 25,089
= Average invested capital $ 320,318 $ 298,082
Return on investment (ROI) 14.9 % 15.3 %
(1)` The average is calculated using the account balance at the end of the current and prior comparative periods.
As of April 30,
(Amounts in millions)
2026 2025 2024
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets $ 289,607 $ 262,372 $ 254,054
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 137,679 125,169 118,518
Accounts payable 62,876 57,700 56,071
Accrued liabilities 27,530 26,085 24,092
ROA was 8.4% and 7.5% for the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, respectively. The increase in ROA was primarily due to an increase in net income as a result of net increases in the fair value of our equity and other investments combined with higher operating income, partially offset by an increase in average total assets due to higher purchases of property and equipment. ROI was 14.9% and 15.3% for the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, respectively. The decrease in ROI was primarily due to an increase in average invested capital due to higher purchases of property and equipment. ROI benefited from increased operating income due to improved business performance, which was partially offset by the non-cash share-based compensation charge at PhonePe in the trailing 12 months as well as business reorganization charges and certain legal matters.
19
Table of Contents
Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes allocating the majority of our capital to higher-return areas focused on automation such as eCommerce, supply chain and store and club investments. The following table provides additional detail regarding our capital expenditures:
(Amounts in millions) Three Months Ended April 30,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures 2026 2025
Supply chain, customer-facing initiatives, technology and other
$ 3,817 $ 3,051
Store and club remodels 1,584 1,242
New stores and clubs, including expansions and relocations 462 212
Total U.S. $ 5,863 $ 4,505
Walmart International 821 481
Total Capital Expenditures $ 6,684 $ 4,986
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash provided by financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows .
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash provided by financing activities.
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Amounts in millions) 2026 2025
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,738 $ 5,411
Payments for property and equipment (6,684) (4,986)
Free cash flow $ (1,946) $ 425
Net cash used in investing activities (1)
$ (6,737) $ (5,093)
Net cash provided by financing activities 2,328 8
(1) Net cash used in investing activities includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $4.7 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2026, which represents a decrease of $0.7 billion when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to timing of inventory receipts, partially offset by timing of certain payments and an increase in cash provided by operating income. Free cash flow for the three months ended April 30, 2026 was negative $1.9 billion, which represents a decrease of $2.4 billion when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The decrease in free cash flow was due to an increase of $1.7 billion in capital expenditures to support our omnichannel growth strategy combined with the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities described above.
20
Table of Contents
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions) 2026 2025
Net sales $ 175,684 $ 163,981
Percentage change from comparable period 7.1 % 2.5 %
Membership and other income (1)
2,067 1,628
Total revenues 177,751 165,609
Percentage change from comparable period 7.3 % 2.5 %
Gross profit (2)
42,626 39,678
Operating expenses (2)
37,200 34,171
Operating income 7,493 7,135
Other (gains) and losses (275) 597
Consolidated net income $ 5,490 $ 4,639
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit 24.3 % 24.2 %
Operating expenses 21.2 % 20.8 %
Operating income 4.3 % 4.4 %
Unit counts at period end
10,974 10,784
Retail square feet at period end
1,057 1,053
(1) Membership and other income includes membership fees and other items such as rental and tenant income, recycling income, gift card breakage income, as well as other income from corporate campus facilities.
(2) Gross profit is defined as net sales less cost of sales. Operating expenses refers to operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Our total revenues increased $12.1 billion or 7.3% for the three months ended April 30, 2026 when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales in our U.S. segments and international markets driven by growth in transactions. eCommerce net sales grew $8.5 billion or 26% primarily driven by store and club-fulfilled delivery. Net sales growth also reflected strong sales in grocery and general merchandise across our segments. Net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2026 were positively affected by $2.3 billion in currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Membership and other income increased $0.4 billion or 27.0% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, reflecting 17.4% growth in membership fee revenue with strength across membership programs globally. Additionally, other income for the three months ended April 30, 2026 benefited from certain miscellaneous income items, none of which are individually material.
Gross profit rate increased 6 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year, primarily due to the Walmart U.S. segment, driven by merchandise mix shifts and growth in higher margin businesses, including advertising, partially offset by higher fuel costs within our supply chain and increased eCommerce fulfillment costs in the Sam's Club U.S. segment.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 33 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year, primarily driven by higher depreciation related to our capital investments, certain business reorganization charges of $0.2 billion within the Walmart U.S. segment and Corporate and support related to strategic efforts to align our global platforms, as well as higher associate healthcare benefit costs related to increased enrollment and medical cost inflation in the U.S.
Other gains and losses consist of certain non-operating items, such as the change in the fair value of our investments and gains or losses on business dispositions, which by their nature can fluctuate from period to period. Other gains and losses for the three months ended April 30, 2026 consisted of net gains of $0.3 billion, compared to net losses of $0.6 billion for the same period in the previous fiscal year. These net gains and losses primarily consisted of changes in fair value of our equity and other investments driven by changes in their underlying stock prices.
Our effective income tax rate was 23.2% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, compared to 22.6% for the same period in the previous fiscal year. Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances, business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, changes in tax law, changes in the administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that may be different than the U.S. statutory rate.
21
Table of Contents
As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated net income increased $0.9 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. Accordingly, diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart was $0.67 for the three months ended April 30, 2026, which represents an increase of $0.11 when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions) 2026 2025
Net sales $ 117,169 $ 112,163
Net sales percentage change from comparable period 4.5 % 3.2 %
Calendar comparable sales increase 4.3 % 3.1 %
Membership and other income
926 636
Gross profit 32,529 30,811
Operating expenses 27,558 25,751
Operating income $ 5,897 $ 5,696
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit 27.8 % 27.5 %
Operating expenses 23.5 % 23.0 %
Operating income 5.0 % 5.1 %
Unit counts at period end 4,614 4,606
Retail square feet at period end 699 698
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $5.0 billion or 4.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was due to comparable sales of 4.3% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, driven by growth in transactions and average ticket, reflecting strength in grocery and general merchandise. The Walmart U.S. segment's eCommerce net sales positively contributed approximately 5.2% to comparable sales for the three months ended April 30, 2026. This growth reflects continued strength in customer and Walmart+ member engagement with omnichannel offerings, which was primarily driven by store-fulfilled delivery.
Membership and other income increased 45.6% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, primarily driven by increases in certain miscellaneous income items, as well as double-digit percentage growth in membership fee revenue from Walmart+.
Gross profit rate increased 29 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily driven by merchandise mix shifts and growth in higher margin businesses, including advertising, partially offset by higher fuel costs within our supply chain.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 56 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to increased depreciation expense related to our continued capital investments, higher associate healthcare benefit costs related to increased enrollment and medical cost inflation, as well as business reorganization charges.
As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income increased $0.2 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.
22
Table of Contents
Walmart International Segment
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions) 2026 2025
Net sales $ 35,110 $ 29,754
Percentage change from comparable period 18.0 % (0.3) %
Membership and other income 425 379
Gross profit 7,423 6,290
Operating expenses 6,246 5,376
Operating income $ 1,602 $ 1,293
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit 21.1 % 21.1 %
Operating expenses 17.8 % 18.1 %
Operating income 4.6 % 4.3 %
Unit counts at period end 5,759 5,578
Retail square feet at period end 278 274
Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased $5.4 billion or 18.0% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales across our international markets, including strong eCommerce growth of $2.0 billion, and positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $2.3 billion.
Gross profit rate was flat for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The rate benefitted from improved eCommerce margins and business mix shifts, offset by ongoing format mix shifts.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 28 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year, primarily due to disciplined cost controls and ongoing format mix shifts, partially offset by investments in strategic growth priorities in our Canada and Mexico markets.
As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income increased $0.3 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.
Sam's Club U.S. Segment
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions) 2026 2025
Including Fuel
Net sales $ 23,405 $ 22,064
Percentage change from comparable period 6.1 % 2.9 %
Calendar comparable sales increase 5.9 % 2.8 %
Membership and other income 674 607
Gross profit 2,674 2,577
Operating expenses 2,674 2,518
Operating income $ 674 $ 666
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit 11.4 % 11.7 %
Operating expenses 11.4 % 11.4 %
Operating income 2.9 % 3.0 %
Unit counts at period end 601 600
Retail square feet at period end 81 80
Excluding Fuel (1)
Net sales $ 20,517 $ 19,739
Percentage change from comparable period 3.9 % 5.5 %
Operating income $ 515 $ 529
(1) We believe the Excluding Fuel information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club U.S. segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices. Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club U.S. segment in the future.
Net sales for the Sam's Club U.S. segment increased $1.3 billion or 6.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to comparable sales, including fuel, of 5.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, with growth in transactions and unit volumes, reflecting strength in grocery
23
Table of Contents
and general merchandise. Additionally, higher fuel sales, driven by higher fuel prices and volumes, positively impacted comparable sales by 2.1% for three months ended April 30, 2026. Sam's Club U.S. eCommerce net sales positively contributed approximately 3.1% to comparable sales for the three months ended April 30, 2026, reflecting continued strength in member engagement with omnichannel offerings, such as club-fulfilled delivery.
Membership and other income increased 11.0% for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to growth in the membership base and Plus penetration, as well as increases in certain miscellaneous income items. Effective May 1, 2026, Sam's Club U.S. increased its annual membership fees for Club and Plus memberships from $50 to $60 and from $110 to $120, respectively. The fee increase will benefit membership and other income in future periods, as membership fees are deferred and recognized ratably over the one-year membership term.
Gross profit rate decreased 26 basis points for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to increased eCommerce fulfillment costs, driven by club-fulfilled delivery.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was flat for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The rate benefitted from higher fuel sales, offset by increased costs related to club-fulfillment of delivery orders and higher associate healthcare benefit costs related to increased enrollment and medical cost inflation.
As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income increased slightly for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations. Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases. We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be sufficient to fund operations, finance our investment activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Amounts in millions) 2026 2025
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,738 $ 5,411
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2026 decreased $0.7 billion when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to timing of inventory receipts, partially offset by timing of certain payments and an increase in cash provided by operating income.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were $10.7 billion and $9.3 billion at April 30, 2026 and 2025, respectively. Our working capital deficit was $26.2 billion as of April 30, 2026, which increased when compared to the $22.7 billion working capital deficit as of April 30, 2025. The increase in our working capital deficit was primarily driven by the timing of certain payments described above and an increase in short-term borrowings for general corporate purposes, partially offset by an increase in inventories and receivables primarily related to sales growth combined with higher cash balances. We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of cash dividends and share repurchases.
As of April 30, 2026 and January 31, 2026, cash and cash equivalents of $5.0 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Amounts in millions) 2026 2025
Net cash used in investing activities $ (6,737) $ (5,093)
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2026 increased $1.6 billion when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to increased payments for property and equipment.
24
Table of Contents
Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Amounts in millions) 2026 2025
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 2,328 $ 8
Net cash provided by financing activities increased $2.3 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2026, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to lower share repurchases and higher short-term borrowings, primarily offset by debt repayments in the current fiscal year.
In April 2026, the Company renewed and extended its existing 364-day revolving credit facility of $10.0 billion as well as its five-year credit facility of $5.0 billion. In total, we had committed lines of credit in the U.S. of $15.0 billion at April 30, 2026, all undrawn.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for the three months ended April 30, 2026:
(Amounts in millions) Long-term debt due within one year Long-term debt Total
Balances as of February 1, 2026 $ 3,542 $ 34,624 $ 38,166
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt (1)
— 4,230 4,230
Repayments of long-term debt (1,504) — (1,504)
Reclassifications of long-term debt 1,873 (1,873) —
Currency and other adjustments
(15) (94) (109)
Balances as of April 30, 2026 $ 3,896 $ 36,887 $ 40,783
(1) Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt are net of deferred loan costs and any related discount or premium.
During the three months ended April 30, 2026, our total outstanding long-term debt increased $2.6 billion, primarily due to the issuance of new long-term debt in April 2026, less current year debt repayments. Refer to Note 3 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details.
Dividends
Effective February 19, 2026, the Company approved the fiscal 2027 annual dividend of $0.99 per share, an increase over the fiscal 2026 annual dividend of $0.94 per share. For fiscal 2027, the annual dividend was or will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.2475 per share, according to the following record and payable dates:
Record Date Payable Date
March 20, 2026 April 6, 2026
May 8, 2026 May 26, 2026
August 21, 2026 September 8, 2026
December 11, 2026 January 4, 2027
The dividend installments payable on April 6, 2026 and May 26, 2026 were paid as scheduled.
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status. All repurchases made during the three months ended April 30, 2026 prior to February 23, 2026 were made under the program in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2027. In February 2026, the Company approved a new $30 billion share repurchase program, which beginning on February 23, 2026, replaced the previous share repurchase program. As of April 30, 2026, authorization for $28.2 billion of share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.
The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, share repurchase information for the three months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025:
Three Months Ended April 30,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data) 2026 2025
Total number of shares repurchased 16.6 50.4
Average price paid per share $ 125.51 $ 90.35
Total amount paid for share repurchases $ 2,080 $ 4,555
25
Table of Contents
During the three months ended April 30, 2026, the Company repurchased $2.1 billion in shares of its common stock, a decrease of $2.5 billion as compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The decrease was primarily driven by opportunistic prices during the first quarter of fiscal 2026 as part of the Company's long-term strategy.
Material Cash Requirements
Material cash requirements from operating activities primarily consist of inventory purchases, employee related costs, taxes, interest and other general operating expenses, which we expect to be primarily satisfied by our cash from operations. Other material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations include short-term borrowings, long-term debt and related interest payments, leases and purchase obligations.
Capital Resources
We believe our cash flows from operations, current cash position, short-term borrowings and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements and contractual obligations, which includes funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets. As of April 30, 2026, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency Commercial paper Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's A-1+ AA
Moody's Investors Service P-1 Aa2
Fitch Ratings F1+ AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time. Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time. Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
Other Matters
In Note 5 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies" and appears in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption " Item 1. Financial Statements ," we discuss, under the sub-caption " Opioid-Related Litigation " certain opioid-related matters and certain risks arising therefrom. In Note 5 , we discuss, " Asda Equal Value Claims " the Company's indemnification obligation for the Asda Equal Value Claims matter, " Money Transfer Agent Services Matter, " a government investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania into the Company's consumer fraud prevention and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer agent services, as well as matters related to independent contractor drivers on the driver platform under " Driver Platform Matters. " In Note 5 , under " Mexico Antitrust Matter ," we also discuss a quasi-judicial administrative process initiated by COFECE against Walmex and Walmex's related constitutional challenge. In Note 5 we also discuss a show cause notice and requests issued by the Directorate of Enforcement to Flipkart regarding Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations in India and an India Antitrust Matter. We reference various legal proceedings related to the Prescription Opiate Litigation, the DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation and False Claims Act Litigation; Asda Equal Value Claims; Money Transfer Agent Services Matter; Federal Trade Commission and State Attorneys General Driver Platform Litigation; Mexico Antitrust Matter; and an India Antitrust Matter in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption " Item 1. Legal Proceedings ," under the caption "I. Supplemental Information." We also discuss an environmental matter with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption " Item 1. Legal Proceedings ," under the sub-caption "II. Environmental Matters." The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the incurrence of a material liability by the Company upon their final resolution.
26
Table of Contents

## Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Market risks relating to our operations result primarily from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair value of certain equity investments. As of April 30, 2026, there were no material changes to our market risks disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2026. The information concerning market risk set forth in Part II, Item 7A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2026, as filed with the SEC on March 13, 2026, under the caption "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," is hereby incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
