---
doc_type: sec_filing
source: sec_edgar
ticker: WELL
accession_number: 0000766704-26-000018
form_type: 8-K
items:
- '2.02'
- '9.01'
filed_date: '2026-04-28'
filing_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670426000018/well-20260428.htm
press_release_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670426000018/a1q26earningsrelease991.htm
tickers:
- WELL
themes:
- demographic_demand_tailwinds
ingestion_date: '2026-07-09'
extraction_source: v3 SEC filings pipeline (sec_filings.py); EDGAR; claude-extracted
  themes
---

# WELL 8-K — filed 2026-04-28

## 8-K body

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 28, 2026
Welltower Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 1-8923 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction
of Incorporation) (Commission
File Number) (IRS Employer
Identification No.)
4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: ( 419 ) 247-2800
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock, $1.00 par value per share WELL New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.800% Notes due 2028 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/28 New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.500% Notes due 2034 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/34 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2026 , Welltower Inc. issued a press release that announced operating results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2026. The press release refers to a supplemental information package that is available on the Company's website (www.welltower.com), free of charge. Copies of the press release and supplemental information package have been furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Report"), and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press release of Welltower Inc. dated April 28, 2026, announcing earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2026.
99.2 Welltower Inc. Supplemental Information Package for the quarter ended March 31, 2026.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
WELLTOWER INC.
By: /s/ Matthew McQueen
Name: Matthew McQueen
Title: Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel
Dated: April 28, 2026

## Exhibit EX-99.1

EX-99.1
2
a1q26earningsrelease991.htm
EX-99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 28, 2026
For more information contact:
Tim McHugh (419) 247-2800
Welltower Reports First Quarter 2026 Results
Toledo, Ohio, April 28, 2026 ….. Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL ) today announced results for the quarter ended March 31, 2026.
First Quarter and Other Recent Highlights
• Reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $1.02 per diluted share
• Reported quarterly normalized funds from operations attributable to common stockholders of $1.47 per diluted share, an increase of 23% over the prior year
• Reported total portfolio year-over-year same store NOI ("SSNOI") growth of 16.4%, driven by SSNOI growth in our Seniors Housing Operating ("SHO") portfolio of 22.1%
• SHO portfolio organic same store revenue growth increased 9.5% year-over-year in the first quarter, resulting from 370 basis points ("bps") of average occupancy growth and 5.0% growth in Revenue Per Occupied Room ("RevPOR")
• Year-to-date, closed or under contract to close $10.5 billion of investment activity, including $3.3 billion of pro rata gross investments completed in the first quarter and $7.2 billion of pro rata gross investments closed or are under contract to close subsequent to quarter-end
• We completed $2.8 billion of pro rata dispositions and loan repayments during the first quarter, comprising $1.4 billion of Outpatient Medical ("OM") dispositions which includes follow-on tranches of the previously announced OM portfolio transaction, $524 million of long-term/post-acute care properties which includes the previously announced sale of properties within the Integra joint venture and $873 million of loan repayments
• As of March 31, 2026, reported Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA of 2.73x and approximately $11.1 billion of available liquidity inclusive of $4.8 billion of available cash and restricted cash and full capacity under our recently upsized $6.25 billion line of credit
• Repaid $700 million of senior unsecured notes at maturity in April 2026 with free cash flow
• Expanded our capital light revenue opportunities through the licensing of our data science platform to Public Storage and a preeminent global private equity real estate firm
Capital Activity and Liquidity
Liquidity Update Net debt to consolidated enterprise value decreased to 8.8% as of March 31, 2026 from 10.8% as of December 31, 2025. We sourced over $4 billion of attractively priced capital, including the assumption of below-market debt, equity issuances and proceeds from dispositions and loan repayments to fund accretive capital deployment opportunities.
Expanded Senior Unsecured Line of Credit In March, we closed on an amended $6.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit line, which enhances flexibility and achieves a 15 bps improvement in pricing. The revolving facility is comprised of a $4.25 billion tranche that matures on March 6, 2030 and a $2.0 billion tranche that matures on July 24, 2029. We have an ability, on an uncommitted basis, to upsize the revolving facility by up to an additional $1.25 billion. The amended facility increases our total available credit facilities to $7.5 billion. Concurrent with the closing, we repaid our existing $1 billion USD term loan and $250 million CAD term loan with cash on hand.
Unsecured Senior Note Activity Repaid $700 million of senior unsecured notes in April 2026 with free cash flow.
Recent Investment Activity
In the first quarter, we completed $3.3 billion of pro rata gross investments. Additionally, we completed pro rata property dispositions of $1.9 billion and loan repayments of $873 million weighted towards the back half of the quarter.
Notable Portfolio Activity
Page 1 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
Amica Senior Lifestyles Acquisition On April 1, 2026, we completed the previously announced acquisition of a Canadian portfolio of 38 seniors housing communities for a pro rata purchase price of C$4.1 billion, including cash of C$3.5 billion and the assumption of C$617 million of secured debt, representing our proportionate share, with an average interest rate of 3.6%. Additionally, we entered into forward purchase agreements to acquire five properties currently under development.
Dividend O n April 28, 2026, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended March 31, 2026 of $0.74 per share. This dividend, which will be paid on May 21, 2026 to stockholders of record as of May 13, 2026, will b e our 220th consecutive quarterly cash dividend. The declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends remains subject to review an d approval by the Board of Directors.
Outlook for 2026 Net income attributable to common stockholders guidance has been revised to a range of $3.24 to $3.38 per diluted share from the previous range of $3.11 to $3.27. We also increased the guidance range of full year normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders to a range of $6.21 to $6.35 per diluted share from the previous range of $6.09 to $6.25. In preparing our guidance, we have updated or confirmed the following assumptions:
• Same Store NOI: We expect average blended SSNOI growth of 12.25% to 16.00%, which is comprised of the following components:
◦ Seniors Housing Operating approximately 16.5% to 21.5%
◦ Seniors Housing Triple-net approximately 3.0% to 4.0%
◦ Outpatient Medical approximately 2.0% to 3.0%
◦ Long-Term/Post-Acute Care approximately 2.0% to 3.0%
• Investments: Our earnings guidance includes only those acquisitions announced or closed to date. Furthermore, no transitions, restructures or capital activity beyond those announced to date are included.
• General and Administrative Expenses: We anticipate general and administrative expenses to be approximately $263 million to $271 million and stock-based compensation expense to be approximately $60 million.
• Dispositions: We expect pro rata disposition proceeds of $1.4 billion at a blended yield of 6.7% in the next twelve months. This includes approximately $1.1 billion of consideration from expected property sales and $0.3 billion of expected proceeds from loan repayments.
Our guidance does not include any additional investments, dispositions or capital transactions, nor any other expenses, impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional normalizing items beyond those disclosed. Please see the Supplemental Reporting Measures section for further discussion and our definition of normalized FFO and SSNOI and Exhibit 3 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders. We will provide additional detail regarding our 2026 outlook and assumptions on the first quarter 2026 conference call.
Conference Call Information We have scheduled a conference c all on Wednesday, April 29, 2026 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss our first quarter 2026 results, industry tren ds and portfolio performance. Telephone access will be available by dialing (888) 340-5024 or (646) 960-0135 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through May 6, 2026. To access the rebroadcast, dial (800) 770-2030 or (609) 800-9909 (international). The conference ID number is 8230248. To particip ate in the webcast, log on to www.welltower.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days.
Supplemental Reporting Measures We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders ("NICS"), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider funds from operations ("FFO"), normalized FFO, net operating income ("NOI"), same store NOI ("SSNOI"), revenue per occupied room ("RevPOR"), same store RevPOR ("SS RevPOR"), expense per occupied room ("ExpPOR"), same store ExpPOR ("SS ExpPOR"), EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed o n our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
Page 2 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO attributable to common stockholders, as defined by NAREIT, means net income attributable to common stockholders, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and acquisitions of controlling interests, impairments of depreciable assets, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests. Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders represents FFO attributable to common stockholders adjusted for certain items detailed in Exhibit 2. We believe that normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance because investors and equity analysts may use this measure to compare the operating performance of Welltower between periods or as compared to other REITs or other companies on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated and/or incalculable items.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to managers, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and are unallocable to the properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and leased properties, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and U.K. properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our portfolio. No reconciliation of the forecasted range for SSNOI on a combined basis or by property type is included in this release because we are unable to quantify certain amounts that would be required to be included in the comparable GAAP financial measure without unreasonable efforts, and we believe such reconciliation would imply a degree of precision that could be confusing or misleading to investors.
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata share of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement, divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population, which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and include any revenue and expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses on disposition of properties and acquisitions of controlling interests, impairment of assets, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA
Page 3 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. In addition, we use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest expense and secured debt principal amortization. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA and consolidated enterprise value. Net debt is defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Consolidated enterprise value represents the sum of net debt, the fair market value of our common stock and noncontrolling interests.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management performance. None of the supplemental reporting measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the exhibits for reconciliations of supplemental reporting measures and the supplemental information package for the quarter ended March 31, 2026, which is available on Welltower's website (www.welltower.com), for information and reconciliations of additional supplemental reporting measures.
About Welltower Welltower Inc. (NYSE: WELL), an S&P 500 company, is positioned at the center of the silver economy, focusing on rental housing for aging seniors across the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Our portfolio of 2,500+ seniors and wellness housing communities is positioned at the intersection of housing and hospitality, creating vibrant communities for mature renters and older adults. We believe our real estate portfolio is unmatched, located in highly attractive micromarkets with stunning built environments. Yet, we are an unusual real estate organization as we view ourselves as an operating company in a real estate wrapper, driven by highly-aligned partnerships and an unconventional culture. Through our disciplined approach to capital allocation powered by our Data Science platform and superior operating results driven by the Welltower Business System - our end-to-end operating platform - we aspire to deliver long-term compounding of per share growth for our existing investors, our North Star.
We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the "Investors" section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading "Investors." Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this press release and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This document contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "pro forma," "estimate" or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. These statements include, among others, management's expectations regarding the favorable impact of the acquisitions made and additional acquisition pipeline and our statements under the section "Outlook for 2026." Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower's actual results to differ materially from Welltower's expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical developments, including economic downturns, elevated inflation and interest rates, political or social conflict, unrest or violence or similar events; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the healthcare industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements, public perception of the healthcare industry and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the healthcare and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower's ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters, public health emergencies and extreme weather affecting Welltower's properties; Welltower's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower's ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower's properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower's financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates and changes to U.S. and global monetary, fiscal or trade policies; Welltower's approach to artificial intelligence; Welltower's ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, and other risks described in Welltower's reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 4 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
Welltower Inc.
Financial Exhibits
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(in thousands)
March 31,
2026 2025
Assets
Real estate investments:
Land and land improvements $ 6,736,066 $ 5,552,719
Buildings and improvements 52,873,371 44,793,835
Acquired lease intangibles 2,853,696 2,688,181
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 749,426 95,667
Construction in progress 764,223 1,045,160
Less accumulated depreciation and intangible amortization (10,822,151) (11,092,885)
Net real property owned 53,154,631 43,082,677
Right of use assets, net 2,023,166 1,230,343
Investments in sales-type leases, net 57,800 —
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 2,567,564 1,772,708
Net real estate investments 57,803,161 46,085,728
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 2,045,081 1,787,398
Cash and cash equivalents 4,703,775 3,501,851
Restricted cash 115,518 108,434
Receivables and other assets 2,553,021 1,810,203
Total other assets 9,417,395 7,207,886
Total assets $ 67,220,556 $ 53,293,614
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ —
Senior unsecured notes 15,159,712 13,219,202
Secured debt 2,773,856 2,504,655
Lease liabilities 2,051,273 1,285,727
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 2,306,445 1,702,053
Total liabilities 22,291,286 18,711,637
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 196,411 277,461
Equity:
Common stock 704,860 652,088
Capital in excess of par value 52,409,593 42,030,903
Treasury stock (22,853) (20,172)
Cumulative net income 11,762,241 10,354,681
Cumulative dividends (20,717,700) (18,751,105)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (342,466) (309,636)
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders' equity 43,793,675 33,956,759
Noncontrolling interests 939,184 347,757
Total equity 44,732,859 34,304,516
Total liabilities and equity $ 67,220,556 $ 53,293,614
Page 5 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
Three Months Ended
March 31,
2026 2025
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 2,780,931 $ 1,864,530
Rental income 453,842 461,567
Interest income 70,929 62,490
Other income 46,224 34,500
Total revenues 3,351,926 2,423,087
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 2,055,420 1,462,390
Depreciation and amortization 622,752 485,869
Interest expense 192,715 144,962
General and administrative expenses 67,474 63,758
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — (3,210)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 727 6,156
Provision for loan losses, net 1,632 (2,007)
Impairment of assets 4,826 52,402
Other expenses 61,137 14,060
Total expenses 3,006,683 2,224,380
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and other items 345,243 198,707
Income tax (expense) benefit (11,633) 5,519
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (1,686) 1,263
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net 420,400 51,777
Income (loss) from continuing operations 752,324 257,266
Net income (loss) 752,324 257,266
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1)
23,652 (691)
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 728,672 $ 257,957
Average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 699,837 643,393
Diluted 726,255 653,795
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:
Basic $ 1.04 $ 0.40
Diluted (2)
$ 1.02 $ 0.40
Common dividends per share $ 0.74 $ 0.67
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
(2) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP Units and DownREIT Units.
Page 6 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
FFO Reconciliations Exhibit 1
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2026 2025
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 728,672 $ 257,957
Depreciation and amortization 622,752 485,869
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (415,574) 625
Noncontrolling interests (1)
17,100 (9,468)
Unconsolidated entities (2)
29,598 30,214
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders 982,548 765,197
Normalizing items, net (3)
84,119 21,980
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 1,066,667 $ 787,177
Average diluted common shares outstanding 726,255 653,795
Per diluted share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income (loss) (4)
$ 1.02 $ 0.40
NAREIT FFO $ 1.35 $ 1.17
Normalized FFO $ 1.47 $ 1.20
Normalized FFO Payout Ratio:
Dividends per common share $ 0.74 $ 0.67
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders per share $ 1.47 $ 1.20
Normalized FFO payout ratio 50 % 56 %
Other items: (5)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (58,621) $ (46,121)
Non-cash interest expenses (6)
13,565 12,869
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions (7)
(69,474) (74,550)
Stock-based compensation (8)
17,213 14,643
(1) Represents noncontrolling interests' share of net FFO adjustments.
(2) Represents Welltower's share of net FFO adjustments from unconsolidated entities.
(3) See Exhibit 2.
(4) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP Units and DownREIT Units, where applicable.
(5) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and including Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(6) Excludes normalized foreign currency loss (gain) (see Exhibit 2).
(7) Reflects recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions on owned operational properties.
(8) Excludes normalized stock compensation expense related to the 2021 Special Performance Option Awards.
Page 7 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
Normalizing Items Exhibit 2
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2026 2025
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net $ — $ (3,210)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 727 (1) 6,156
Provision for loan losses, net 1,632 (2) (2,007)
Income tax benefits — (7,586)
Other expenses 61,137 (3) 14,060
Special incentive plan compensation 221 (4) 2,862
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 3,040 (5) 3,842
Foreign currency loss (gain) (2,926) (6) 109
Normalizing items attributable to noncontrolling interests and unconsolidated entities, net 20,288 (7) 7,754
Net normalizing items $ 84,119 $ 21,980
Average diluted common shares outstanding 726,255 653,795
Net normalizing items per diluted share $ 0.12 $ 0.03
(1) Primarily related to the extinguishment of secured debt.
(2) Primarily related to adjustments to reserves for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard.
(3) Primarily related to non-capitalizable transaction costs and legal fees.
(4) Primarily related to expenses recognized on the 2021 Special Performance Option Awards.
(5) Primarily relates to casualty losses net of any insurance recoveries.
(6) Primarily relates to foreign currency gains and losses related to accrued interest on intercompany loans and third party debt denominated in a foreign currency.
(7) Primarily relates to hypothetical liquidation at book value adjustments related to in substance real estate investments.
Outlook Reconciliation: Year Ending December 31, 2026 Exhibit 3
(in millions, except per share data) Prior Outlook Current Outlook
Low High Low High
FFO Reconciliation:
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2,244 $ 2,359 $ 2,370 $ 2,472
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (1)
(564) (564) (576) (576)
Depreciation and amortization (1)
2,712 2,712 2,669 2,669
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders 4,392 4,507 4,463 4,565
Normalizing items, net (1,2)
— — 84 84
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 4,392 $ 4,507 $ 4,547 $ 4,649
Diluted per share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income $ 3.11 $ 3.27 $ 3.24 $ 3.38
NAREIT FFO $ 6.09 $ 6.25 $ 6.10 $ 6.24
Normalized FFO $ 6.09 $ 6.25 $ 6.21 $ 6.35
Other items: (1)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (289) $ (289) $ (299) $ (299)
Non-cash interest expenses 52 52 57 57
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions (3)
(459) (459) (465) (465)
Stock-based compensation 63 63 63 63
(1) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(2) See Exhibit 2.
(3) Reflects recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions on owned operational properties.
Page 8 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
SSNOI Reconciliation Exhibit 4
(in thousands) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2026 2025 % growth
Net income (loss) $ 752,324 $ 257,266
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (420,400) (51,777)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 1,686 (1,263)
Income tax expense (benefit) 11,633 (5,519)
Other expenses 61,137 14,060
Impairment of assets 4,826 52,402
Provision for loan losses, net 1,632 (2,007)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 727 6,156
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — (3,210)
General and administrative expenses 67,474 63,758
Depreciation and amortization 622,752 485,869
Interest expense 192,715 144,962
Consolidated NOI 1,296,506 960,697
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
48,240 28,316
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(11,785) (14,284)
Pro rata NOI 1,332,961 974,729
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties
(26,225) (34,521)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties
(581,183) (329,904)
Currency and ownership adjustments (3)
(1,858) 9,717
Normalizing adjustments, net (4)
(1,734) 22
Same Store NOI (SSNOI) $ 721,961 $ 620,043 16.4%
Seniors Housing Operating 531,817 435,659 22.1%
Seniors Housing Triple-net 79,538 76,534 3.9%
Outpatient Medical 23,842 23,285 2.4%
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 86,764 84,565 2.6%
Total SSNOI $ 721,961 $ 620,043 16.4%
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.43 and to translate U.K. properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.23.
(4) Includes other adjustments described in the accompanying Supplement.
Page 9 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
Reconciliation of SHO SS RevPOR Growth Exhibit 5
(in thousands except SS RevPOR) Three Months Ended
March 31,
2026 2025
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 2,790,374 $ 1,867,871
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
55,328 56,430
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(21,914) (23,074)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
2,823,788 1,901,227
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (2,516) (5,082)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (1,094,049) (343,836)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(4,719) 19,982
Other normalizing adjustments (5)
(419) —
SHO SS RevPOR revenues (5)
$ 1,722,085 $ 1,572,291
Average occupied units/month (6)
92,987 89,119
SHO SS RevPOR (7)
$ 6,259 $ 5,963
SS RevPOR YOY growth 5.0 %
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents SHO revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(4) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages and foreign currency exchange rates for properties in the U.K. and Canada.
(5) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
Page 10 of 11
1Q26 Earnings Release April 28, 2026
Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation Exhibit 6
(in thousands)
Three Months Ended
March 31,
2026
Net income (loss) $ 752,324
Interest expense 192,715
Income tax expense (benefit) 11,633
Depreciation and amortization 622,752
EBITDA 1,579,424
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 1,686
Stock-based compensation 17,434
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 727
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (420,400)
Impairment of assets 4,826
Provision for loan losses, net 1,632
Other expenses 61,137
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 3,040
Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,249,506
Total debt (1)
$ 18,455,978
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (4,819,293)
Net debt $ 13,636,685
Adjusted EBITDA annualized $ 4,998,024
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 2.73x
(1) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments and financing lease liabilities. Excludes operating lease liabilities re lated to ASC 842 of $1,528,863,000 as of March 31, 2026.
Net Debt to Consolidated Enterprise Value Exhibit 7
(in thousands, except share price)
March 31, 2026 March 31, 2025
Common shares outstanding 704,687 651,889
Period end share price $ 197.71 $ 153.21
Common equity market capitalization $ 139,323,667 $ 99,875,914
Total debt $ 18,455,978 $ 15,831,799
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (4,819,293) (3,610,285)
Net debt 13,636,685 12,221,514
Noncontrolling interests (1)
1,135,595 625,218
Consolidated enterprise value $ 154,095,947 $ 112,722,646
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value 8.8 % 10.8 %
(1) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet.
Page 11 of 11

## Exhibit EX-99.2

EX-99.2
3
a1q26supplement992.htm
EX-99.2
Table of Contents
Overview
1
Portfolio
2
Investment
6
Financial
9
Glossary
14
Supplemental Reporting Measures
15
Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors
19
Overview
(dollars and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Portfolio Composition (1)
Beds/Unit Mix
Average Age Properties Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care
Seniors Housing Operating 16 1,917 191,947 32,890 51,133 80,297 27,105 522
Seniors Housing Triple-net 24 431 29,206 — 2,190 19,225 7,488 303
Outpatient Medical 15 141 9,511,258 (2) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 34 349 41,312 — 45 997 — 40,270
Total 19 2,838
NOI Performance
Same Store (3)
In-Place Portfolio (4)
Properties 1Q25 NOI 1Q26 NOI % Change Properties Annualized
In-Place NOI % of Total
Seniors Housing Operating 921 $ 435,659 $ 531,817 22.1 % 1,676 $ 3,039,492 69.6 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 252 76,534 79,538 3.9 % 428 623,092 14.3 %
Outpatient Medical 86 23,285 23,842 2.4 % 93 117,408 2.7 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 196 84,565 86,764 2.6 % 339 584,452 13.4 %
Total 1,455 $ 620,043 $ 721,961 16.4 % 2,536 $ 4,364,444 100.0 %
Portfolio Performance Facility Revenue Mix
Stable Portfolio (5)
Occupancy
EBITDAR Coverage (6)
EBITDARM Coverage (6)
Private Pay Medicaid Medicare
Other Government (7)
Seniors Housing Operating 88.8 % n/a n/a 92.3 % 0.7 % 0.2 % 6.8 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 87.4 % 1.23 1.46 87.1 % 2.3 % 0.1 % 10.5 %
Outpatient Medical 96.9 % n/a n/a 100.0 % — — —
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 85.3 % 1.32 1.70 25.7 % 50.4 % 23.9 % — %
Total 1.28 1.58 88.8 % 3.3 % 1.4 % 6.6 %
Notes:
(1) Includes land parcels and properties under development.
(2) Indicates the total square footage of Outpatient Medical properties.
(3) See pages 16 and 17 for reconciliation.
(4) Excludes land parcels, loans, developments and investments held for sale. See page 16 for reconciliation.
(5) Data as of March 31, 2026 for Seniors Housing Operating and Outpatient Medical and December 31, 2025 for the remaining asset types.
(6) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics.
(7) Represents various federal and local reimbursement programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
1
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
In-Place NOI Diversification (1)
By Partner: Total Properties Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient
Medical Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care Total % of Total
Barchester 261 $ 217,296 $ 264,552 $ — $ — $ 481,848 11.0 %
Cogir Senior Living 180 379,984 — — — 379,984 8.7 %
Care UK 170 262,408 — — — 262,408 6.0 %
Sunrise Senior Living 85 238,200 — — — 238,200 5.5 %
Avir Health Group 131 — — — 211,772 211,772 4.9 %
Oakmont Management Group 72 202,772 — — — 202,772 4.6 %
Avery Healthcare 95 109,356 78,700 — — 188,056 4.3 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 117 179,624 — — — 179,624 4.1 %
HC-One 215 126,940 — — — 126,940 2.9 %
Sagora Senior Living 71 126,792 — — — 126,792 2.9 %
Remaining 1,139 1,196,120 279,840 117,408 372,680 1,966,048 45.1 %
Total 2,536 $ 3,039,492 $ 623,092 $ 117,408 $ 584,452 $ 4,364,444 100.0 %
By Country:
United States 1,610 $ 2,019,500 $ 237,196 $ 117,408 $ 577,744 $ 2,951,848 67.6 %
United Kingdom 794 742,300 382,636 — — 1,124,936 25.8 %
Canada 132 277,692 3,260 — 6,708 287,660 6.6 %
Total 2,536 $ 3,039,492 $ 623,092 $ 117,408 $ 584,452 $ 4,364,444 100.0 %
By MSA:
Greater London 143 $ 187,988 $ 81,912 $ — $ — $ 269,900 6.2 %
New York / New Jersey 70 111,212 24,396 12,128 17,292 165,028 3.8 %
Los Angeles 50 132,068 19,524 284 3,400 155,276 3.6 %
Dallas 79 106,008 968 1,212 30,708 138,896 3.2 %
Houston 54 28,200 — 74,220 20,068 122,488 2.8 %
Montréal 26 93,768 — — — 93,768 2.1 %
Washington D.C. 32 71,492 6,632 — 15,488 93,612 2.1 %
Boston 27 71,748 14,412 168 — 86,328 2.0 %
San Francisco 23 65,996 6,212 — 3,876 76,084 1.7 %
Chicago 34 58,852 7,164 — — 66,016 1.5 %
Philadelphia 36 36,100 5,480 368 10,964 52,912 1.2 %
Seattle 25 43,616 1,268 264 — 45,148 1.0 %
Raleigh 11 11,204 31,428 — — 42,632 1.0 %
Charlotte 25 21,576 10,580 10,404 — 42,560 1.0 %
San Antonio 16 26,108 952 228 15,256 42,544 1.0 %
Cleveland 24 33,100 2,548 — 5,084 40,732 0.9 %
Tampa 26 9,368 2,540 — 27,912 39,820 0.9 %
San Diego 14 27,148 7,532 — 3,116 37,796 0.9 %
Minneapolis 23 37,156 — 552 — 37,708 0.9 %
Birmingham UK 16 24,668 11,896 — — 36,564 0.8 %
Remaining 1,782 1,842,116 387,648 17,580 431,288 2,678,632 61.4 %
Total 2,536 $ 3,039,492 $ 623,092 $ 117,408 $ 584,452 $ 4,364,444 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Represents current quarter annualized In-Place NOI. See page 16 for reconciliation.
2
Portfolio
(dollars, units and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Seniors Housing Operating
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26
Properties 1,113 1,171 1,199 1,659 1,689
Units 124,742 129,758 131,792 160,218 163,618
Total occupancy 85.1 % 85.6 % 86.9 % 87.4 % 87.3 %
Total revenues $ 1,901,227 $ 2,007,567 $ 2,109,690 $ 2,607,559 $ 2,823,788
Operating expenses 1,410,579 1,464,457 1,530,131 1,902,889 2,042,868
NOI $ 490,648 $ 543,110 $ 579,559 $ 704,670 $ 780,920
NOI margin 25.8 % 27.1 % 27.5 % 27.0 % 27.7 %
Recurring cap-ex $ 68,359 $ 63,937 $ 78,803 $ 116,560 $ 67,924
Other cap-ex $ 135,045 $ 118,646 $ 131,668 $ 166,439 $ 165,031
Same Store Performance (2)
1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26
Properties 921 921 921 921 921
Units 104,508 104,523 104,522 104,525 104,484
Occupancy 85.3 % 86.4 % 87.9 % 88.9 % 89.0 %
Same store revenues $ 1,572,867 $ 1,611,726 $ 1,652,555 $ 1,680,617 $ 1,722,576
Compensation 668,246 677,882 689,648 701,603 698,682
Utilities 77,066 64,899 74,637 71,067 78,661
Food 61,729 64,375 66,019 68,450 64,596
Repairs and maintenance 42,473 42,841 45,786 45,310 45,498
Property taxes 52,905 53,030 53,250 49,234 54,611
All other 234,789 240,323 240,550 248,522 248,711
Same store operating expenses 1,137,208 1,143,350 1,169,890 1,184,186 1,190,759
Same store NOI $ 435,659 $ 468,376 $ 482,665 $ 496,431 $ 531,817
Same store NOI margin % 27.7 % 29.1 % 29.2 % 29.5 % 30.9 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 22.1 %
Year over year revenue growth rate 9.5 %
Partners (3)
Properties Pro Rata Units
Welltower Ownership % (4)
Top Markets 1Q26 NOI % of Total
Cogir Senior Living 180 27,246 94.3 % Greater London $ 53,982 6.9 %
Care UK 170 10,938 100.0 % Southern California 49,692 6.4 %
Sunrise Senior Living 85 7,767 90.7 % Northern California 39,704 5.1 %
Barchester 111 6,814 100.0 % New York / New Jersey 27,667 3.5 %
Oakmont Management Group 72 7,099 100.0 % Dallas 26,701 3.4 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 117 11,927 94.2 % Montreal 23,568 3.0 %
HC-One 215 12,348 100.0 % Washington D.C. 20,487 2.6 %
Sagora Senior Living 71 8,174 100.0 % Boston 17,793 2.3 %
Legend Senior Living 59 5,057 89.2 % Chicago 14,693 1.9 %
Avery Healthcare 45 3,377 94.4 % Seattle 11,184 1.4 %
Belmont Village 21 2,803 95.0 % Top markets 285,471 36.5 %
Clover Management 69 7,811 94.2 % All other 495,449 63.5 %
Discovery Senior Living 73 5,844 59.6 % Total $ 780,920 100.0 %
Quality Senior Living 46 5,195 90.9 %
Remaining 342 40,258
Total 1,676 162,658
Notes:
(1) Properties, units, occupancy and cap-ex exclude land parcels, properties under development/redevelopment, leased properties and nonoperational properties.
(2) See pages 16 and 17 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents partner concentration based on annualized In-Place NOI for the quarter ended March 31, 2026. Property count and pro rata units represent the In-Place portfolio.
(4) Welltower ownership percentage weighted based on In-Place NOI. See page 16 for reconciliation.
3
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Payment Coverage Stratification
EBITDARM Coverage (1)
EBITDAR Coverage (1)
% of In-Place NOI Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases
<.85x 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % 11 3 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % 11 3
.85x-.95x — % — % — % — — — % — % — % — —
.95x-1.05x — % — % — % — — 0.4 % 3.4 % 3.8 % 11 3
1.05x-1.15x — % — % — % — — 0.4 % — % 0.4 % 6 2
1.15x-1.25x 0.3 % — % 0.3 % 4 1 4.7 % 1.2 % 5.9 % 10 7
1.25x-1.35x 1.0 % 1.3 % 2.3 % 9 3 — % — % — % — —
>1.35 5.7 % 6.1 % 11.8 % 11 24 1.5 % 2.8 % 4.3 % 11 16
Total 7.1 % 7.5 % 14.6 % 10 31 7.1 % 7.5 % 14.6 % 10 31
Revenue and Lease Maturity (2)
Rental Income
Year Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term / Post-Acute Care Interest
Income Total
Revenues % of Total
2026 $ 2,613 $ 1,509 $ 9,313 $ 33,252 $ 46,687 2.9 %
2027 — 1,517 1,287 52,514 55,318 3.5 %
2028 — 3,197 6,669 2,505 12,371 0.8 %
2029 1,115 5,068 — 79,933 86,116 5.4 %
2030 12,525 5,954 30,543 3,646 52,668 3.3 %
2031 — 4,886 4,686 12,603 22,175 1.4 %
2032 99,706 3,052 55,255 359 158,372 9.9 %
2033 63,175 817 1,070 — 65,062 4.1 %
2034 433 3,987 — 274 4,694 0.3 %
2035 36,868 5,653 15,007 1,024 58,552 3.7 %
Thereafter 391,907 86,438 465,451 95,279 1,039,075 64.7 %
$ 608,342 $ 122,078 $ 589,281 $ 281,389 $ 1,601,090 100.0 %
Weighted Avg Maturity Years 15 12 15 8 14
Notes:
(1) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics as of December 31, 2025 for stable portfolio only. Agreements included represent 53% of total Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care In-Place NOI. See page 16 for a reconciliation. Agreements with mixed units use the predominant type based on investment balance.
(2) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments classified as held for sale, as well as Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term / Post-Acute Care leases accounted for on a cash basis where substantially all contractual rental income during the most recent period was not collected. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non-cash income. Interest income represents the annualized contractual rate of interest for loans, net of collectability reserves, if applicable.
4
Portfolio
(dollars, square feet and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands except per square feet)
Outpatient Medical
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26
Properties 433 434 437 194 135
Square feet 21,775,061 21,914,499 22,073,485 8,801,545 5,576,683
Occupancy 94.5 % 94.4 % 94.2 % 95.5 % 96.9 %
Total revenues $ 214,693 $ 215,718 $ 219,238 $ 148,862 $ 76,524
Operating expenses 66,804 65,197 65,851 45,000 20,184
NOI $ 147,889 $ 150,521 $ 153,387 $ 103,862 $ 56,340
NOI margin 68.9 % 69.8 % 70.0 % 69.8 % 73.6 %
Revenues per square foot $ 39.44 $ 39.37 $ 39.73 $ 67.65 $ 54.89
NOI per square foot $ 27.17 $ 27.47 $ 27.80 $ 47.20 $ 40.41
Recurring cap-ex $ 6,191 $ 13,221 $ 19,324 $ 4,298 $ 1,550
Other cap-ex $ 9,742 $ 9,297 $ 14,051 $ 1,963 $ 920
Same Store Performance (2)
1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26
Properties 86 86 86 86 86
Occupancy 97.5 % 97.7 % 97.8 % 97.7 % 97.7 %
Same store revenues $ 26,977 $ 27,277 $ 25,569 $ 26,990 $ 27,466
Same store operating expenses 3,692 3,602 1,941 3,200 3,624
Same store NOI $ 23,285 $ 23,675 $ 23,628 $ 23,790 $ 23,842
NOI margin 86.3 % 86.8 % 92.4 % 88.1 % 86.8 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 2.4 %
Portfolio Diversification
by Tenant (3)
Rental Income % of Total Quality Indicators
Kelsey-Seybold $ 73,996 60.6 %
Health system affiliated properties as % of NOI (3)
99.6 %
UnitedHealth 15,420 12.6 %
Health system affiliated tenants as % of rental income (3)
93.5 %
Atrium Health 10,456 8.6 %
Investment grade tenants as % of rental income (3)
94.8 %
Norman Regional Health 6,789 5.6 %
Retention (trailing twelve months) (3)
90.2 %
Baylor Scott & White Health 2,234 1.8 %
Average remaining lease term (years) (3)
12.1
Remaining portfolio 13,183 10.8 %
Average building size (square feet) (3)
71,557
Total $ 122,078 100.0 % Average age (years) 15
Expirations (3)
2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 Thereafter
Occupied square feet 65,924 60,858 128,406 188,154 258,094 3,315,032
% of occupied square feet 1.6 % 1.5 % 3.2 % 4.7 % 6.4 % 82.6 %
Notes:
(1) Properties, square feet, occupancy and cap-ex exclude land parcels, properties under development/redevelopment and nonoperational properties . Per square foot amounts are annualized.
(2) Includes 86 same store properties representing 3,362,256 square feet. See pages 16 and 17 for reconciliation.
(3) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non-cash income. Retention includes month-to-month tenants retained.
5
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Relationship Investment History
Detail of Acquisitions/JVs (1)
2022 2023 2024 2025 1Q26 22-26 Total
Count 27 52 54 90 34 257
Total $ 2,785,739 $ 4,222,706 $ 5,287,140 $ 17,566,127 $ 1,374,866 $ 31,236,578
Low 6,485 2,950 970 4,825 259 259
Median 66,074 65,134 39,863 52,894 26,904 48,899
High 389,149 644,443 936,814 6,644,176 206,230 6,644,176
Investment Timing
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (2)
Yield
Construction Conversions (3)
Year 1 Yield Dispositions and Loan Repayments Yield
January $ 421,410 8.6 % $ 10,242 1.0 % $ 554,763 6.3 %
February 930,790 7.5 % 57,317 (1.6) % 1,163,973 7.6 %
March 1,863,160 7.4 % — — % 1,060,809 8.3 %
Total $ 3,215,360 7.6 % $ 67,559 (1.2) % $ 2,779,545 7.6 %
Notes:
(1) Includes non-yielding asset acquisitions.
(2) Includes advances for non-real estate loans. Excludes land acquisitions and advances for development loans.
(3) Includes expansion conversions and excludes in substance real estate investments.
6
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership, except per bed / unit / square foot)
Gross Investment Activity
First Quarter 2026
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 32 4,105 units $ 254,971 $ 1,069,602
Seniors Housing Triple-net 6 414 units 326,649 135,233
Outpatient Medical 1 134,307 sf 729 97,919
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 1 116 beds 81,466 72,112
Loan funding 1,840,494
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
40 3,215,360 7.6 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 44 4,233 units 63,066
Outpatient Medical — — sf 8,291
Total development projects 44 71,357
Redevelopment and expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 1 28 units 2,327
Total development funding 45 73,684 9.6 %
Total gross investments 3,289,044 7.6 %
Dispositions and Loan Repayments (4)
Seniors Housing Operating 4 217 units 62,722 13,611
Seniors Housing Triple-net 2 107 units 44,860 4,800
Outpatient Medical 64 3,393,449 sf 402 1,364,133
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 35 4,823 beds 111,195 524,397
Loan repayments 872,604
Total dispositions and loan repayments (5)
105 2,779,545 7.6 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ 509,499
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP, for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions. Pro rata am ounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans. Includes acquisition of leaseholds and additional ownership interest in properties, which are both excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yie ld represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan repayments and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales. Includes disposition of partial ownership interest in properties which are excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
7
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Funding Projections (1)
Projected Future Funding
Projects Beds / Units / Square Feet
Stable Yields (2)
2026 Funding Funding Thereafter Total Unfunded Commitments Committed Balances
Seniors Housing Operating 39 3,686 10.8 % $ 294,679 $ 273,164 $ 567,843 $ 1,214,720
Development Project Conversion Estimates (1)
Quarterly Conversions Annual Conversions
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
1Q26 actual $ 68,348 (1.2) % 10.4 % 2026 actual $ 68,348 (1.2) % 10.4 %
2Q26 estimate 202,788 (2.3) % 10.8 % 2026 estimate 397,708 (1.6) % 11.1 %
3Q26 estimate 104,110 (0.3) % 9.7 % 2027 estimate 385,901 (1.2) % 9.5 %
4Q26 estimate 90,810 (1.7) % 13.3 % Thereafter estimate 431,111 0.5 % 11.6 %
Total $ 466,056 (1.6) % 11.0 % Total $ 1,283,068 (0.8) % 10.7 %
Unstabilized Properties
12/31/2025 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (1)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions 3/31/2026 Properties Beds / Units
Seniors Housing Operating 68 (6) 2 3 67 10,012
Seniors Housing Triple-net 7 — — — 7 499
Total 75 (6) 2 3 74 10,511
Occupancy 12/31/2025 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions Progressions 3/31/2026 Properties
0% - 50% 32 — — 3 (7) 28
50% - 70% 20 (1) — — 5 24
70% + 23 (5) 2 — 2 22
Total 75 (6) 2 3 — 74
Occupancy 3/31/2026 Properties Months In Operation Revenues
% of Total Revenues (4)
Gross Investment Balance % of Total Gross Investment
0% - 50% 28 9 $ 114,499 0.8 % $ 1,134,147 1.7 %
50% - 70% 24 23 240,239 1.8 % 1,063,887 1.6 %
70% + 22 35 245,563 1.8 % 1,187,599 1.8 %
Total 74 22 $ 600,302 4.4 % $ 3,385,633 5.1 %
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in substance real estate) and excludes expansion projects. Projects expected to be delivered in phases over multiple quarters are reflected in the last quarter.
(2) Actual yields may vary.
(3) Includes expansion and development loan conversions.
(4) Percent of total revenues based on current quarter annualized pro rata total revenues on page 10 .
8
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Components of NAV
Stabilized NOI Pro rata beds/units/square feet
Seniors Housing Operating (1)
$ 3,039,492 162,658 units
Seniors Housing Triple-net 623,092 29,111 units
Outpatient Medical 117,408 4,130,660 square feet
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 584,452 40,240 beds
Total In-Place NOI (2)
4,364,444
Incremental stabilized NOI (3)
141,896
Total stabilized NOI $ 4,506,340
Obligations
Lines of credit and commercial paper (4)
$ —
Senior unsecured notes (4)
15,203,031
Secured debt (4)
3,532,517
Financing lease liabilities 527,174
Total debt 19,262,722
Add (Subtract):
Other liabilities (assets), net (5)
306,448
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (4,861,519)
Net obligations $ 14,707,651
Other Assets
Land parcels (6)
423,515
Effective Interest Rate (9)
Real estate loans receivable (7)
4,131,005 8.8%
Non-real estate loans receivable (8)
231,974 10.0%
Joint venture real estate loans receivables (10)
227,219 5.7%
Property dispositions (11)
1,144,138
Development properties: (12)
Current balance 653,352
Unfunded commitments 578,262
Committed balances $ 1,231,614
Projected yield 10.8 %
Projected NOI $ 133,014
Common shares outstanding (13)
726,394
Notes:
(1) Includes $18,894,000 attributable to our proportional share of income (loss) from unconsolidated management company investments.
(2) See page 16 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents incremental NOI from Seniors Housing Operating unstabilized properties.
(4) Represents principal amounts due and does not include unamortized premiums/discounts, deferred loan expenses or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet. Includes $850,566,000 of foreign secured debt and $370,880,000 of failed sale-leaseback financing obligations.
(5) Includes liabilities / (assets) that impact cash or NOI and excludes non-real estate loans and non-cash items such as straight-line rent receivable, unearned revenues, intangible assets and above/below market lease intangibles.
(6) Includes land parcels and predevelopment projects.
(7) Represents $4,150,715,000 of real estate loans, excluding development loans and including certain in substance real estate developments and held to maturity debt securities, net of $19,710,000 of credit allowances.
(8) Represents $238,580,000 of non-real estate loans, net of $6,606,000 of credit allowances.
(9) Average cash-pay interest rates are 8.2%, 3.3% and 5.7% fo r real estate, non-real estate loans and joint venture real estate loans, respectively. Rates exclude non-accrual/interest-free loans.
(10) Represents our partners' share of Welltower loans made to select joint ventures secured by the joint venture owned properties.
(11) Represents proceeds from expected property dispositions in the next twelve months.
(12) Includes expansion projects. Includes partial conversions to date.
(13) Includes March 31, 2026 common shares, OP Units and DownREIT Units outstanding and the dilutive impact of exchangeable senior unsecured notes.
9
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Net Operating Income (1)
1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26
Revenues:
Seniors Housing Operating
Resident fees and services $ 1,897,810 $ 2,003,039 $ 2,100,724 $ 2,588,078 $ 2,814,403
Other income 3,417 4,528 8,966 19,481 9,385
Total revenues 1,901,227 2,007,567 2,109,690 2,607,559 2,823,788
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Rental income 103,399 104,360 99,423 167,485 191,086
Interest income 2,111 — — — —
Other income 32 346 91 537 40
Total revenues 105,542 104,706 99,514 168,022 191,126
Outpatient Medical
Rental income 212,554 213,552 217,188 147,701 75,430
Other income 2,139 2,166 2,050 1,161 1,094
Total revenues 214,693 215,718 219,238 148,862 76,524
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Rental income 145,439 165,214 184,261 211,841 191,595
Interest income — — — — 8,077
Other income 199 14 194 5 192
Total revenues 145,638 165,228 184,455 211,846 199,864
Corporate
Interest income 63,572 65,256 70,477 56,158 85,414
Other income 34,179 30,512 52,439 31,513 41,225
Total revenues 97,751 95,768 122,916 87,671 126,639
Total
Resident fees and services 1,897,810 2,003,039 2,100,724 2,588,078 2,814,403
Rental income 461,392 483,126 500,872 527,027 458,111
Interest income 65,683 65,256 70,477 56,158 93,491
Other income 39,966 37,566 63,740 52,697 51,936
Total revenues 2,464,851 2,588,987 2,735,813 3,223,960 3,417,941
Property operating expenses:
Seniors Housing Operating 1,410,579 1,464,457 1,530,131 1,902,889 2,042,868
Seniors Housing Triple-net 5,190 4,817 4,496 4,490 4,827
Outpatient Medical 66,804 65,197 65,851 45,000 20,184
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 3,495 3,705 3,609 2,974 2,893
Corporate 4,054 4,740 6,025 6,261 14,208
Total property operating expenses 1,490,122 1,542,916 1,610,112 1,961,614 2,084,980
Net operating income:
Seniors Housing Operating 490,648 543,110 579,559 704,670 780,920
Seniors Housing Triple-net 100,352 99,889 95,018 163,532 186,299
Outpatient Medical 147,889 150,521 153,387 103,862 56,340
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 142,143 161,523 180,846 208,872 196,971
Corporate 93,697 91,028 116,891 81,410 112,431
Net operating income $ 974,729 $ 1,046,071 $ 1,125,701 $ 1,262,346 $ 1,332,961
Note:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 15 . Includes amounts from investments sold or held for sale. NOI related to OP Unit and DownREIT ownership included at 100%.
10
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Leverage and EBITDA Reconciliations (1)
Twelve Months Ended Three Months Ended
March 31, 2026 March 31, 2026
Net income (loss) $ 1,456,895 $ 752,324
Interest expense 699,708 192,715
Income tax expense (benefit) 10,036 11,633
Depreciation and amortization 2,221,751 622,752
EBITDA 4,388,390 1,579,424
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 17,246 1,686
Stock-based compensation 1,555,786 17,434
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 3,816 727
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (1,817,666) (420,400)
Impairment of assets 73,707 4,826
Provision for loan losses, net (5,777) 1,632
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 25,617 —
Other expenses 248,278 61,137
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 10,565 3,040
Other impairment (2)
604 —
Total adjustments 112,176 (329,918)
Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,500,566 $ 1,249,506
Interest Coverage Ratios
Interest expense $ 699,708 $ 192,715
Capitalized interest 30,728 8,449
Non-cash interest expense (49,166) (10,162)
Total interest $ 681,270 $ 191,002
EBITDA $ 4,388,390 $ 1,579,424
Interest coverage ratio 6.44 x 8.27 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,500,566 $ 1,249,506
Adjusted Interest coverage ratio 6.61 x 6.54 x
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios
Total interest $ 681,270 $ 191,002
Secured debt principal amortization 67,019 17,056
Total fixed charges $ 748,289 $ 208,058
EBITDA $ 4,388,390 $ 1,579,424
Fixed charge coverage ratio 5.86 x 7.59 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,500,566 $ 1,249,506
Adjusted Fixed charge coverage ratio 6.01 x 6.01 x
Net Debt to EBITDA Ratios
Total debt (3)
$ 18,455,978
Less: cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (4,819,293)
Net debt $ 13,636,685
EBITDA Annualized $ 6,317,696
Net debt to EBITDA ratio 2.16 x
Adjusted EBITDA Annualized $ 4,998,024
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 2.73 x
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 15 .
(2) Represents the write-off of straight-line rent receivable and unamortized lease incentive balances related to leases placed on cash recognition.
(3) Includes unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments, financing lease liabilities of $522,410,000 and failed sale-leaseback financing obligations of $370,880,000. Excludes operating lease liabilities of $1,528,863,000 related to ASC 842.
11
Financial
(in thousands except share price)
Leverage and Current Capitalization (1)
% of Total
Book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — — %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
18,455,978 31.51 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (4,819,293) (8.23) %
Net debt to consolidated book capitalization $ 13,636,685 23.28 %
Total equity and noncontrolling interests (4)
44,929,270 76.72 %
Consolidated book capitalization $ 58,565,955 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
528,442
Total book capitalization $ 59,094,397
Undepreciated book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — — %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
18,455,978 26.60 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (4,819,293) (6.95) %
Net debt to consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 13,636,685 19.65 %
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 10,822,151 15.60 %
Total equity and noncontrolling interests (4)
44,929,270 64.75 %
Consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 69,388,106 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
528,442
Total undepreciated book capitalization $ 69,916,548
Enterprise value
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — — %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
18,455,978 11.98 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (4,819,293) (3.13) %
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value $ 13,636,685 8.85 %
Common shares outstanding 704,687
Period end share price 197.71
Common equity market capitalization $ 139,323,667 90.41 %
Noncontrolling interests (4)
1,135,595 0.74 %
Consolidated enterprise value $ 154,095,947 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
528,442
Total enterprise value $ 154,624,389
Secured debt as % of total assets
Secured debt (2)
$ 2,773,856 3.55 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 78,042,707
Total debt as % of gross asset value
Total debt (2)(3)
$ 18,455,978 23.65 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 78,042,707
Unsecured debt as % of unencumbered assets
Unsecured debt (2)
$ 15,159,712 21.18 %
Unencumbered gross assets (7)
$ 71,578,405
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 15 .
(2) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts and other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(3) Includes financing lease liabilities of $522,410,000 and failed sale-leaseback financing obligations of $370,880,000. Excludes operating lease liabilities of $1,528,863,000 related to ASC 842.
(4) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our balance sheet.
(5) Net of Welltower's share of unconsolidated debt and minority partners' share of Welltower consolidated debt.
(6) Gross asset value equals total assets plus accumulated depreciation as reflected on the balance sheet.
(7) Unencumbered gross assets equal gross asset value for consolidated properties that are not financed with secured debt.
12
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Debt Maturities and Scheduled Principal Amortization (1)
Year
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3)
Consolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (4)
% of Total
Wtd. Avg. Interest Rate (5)
2026 $ — $ 2,668,941 $ 227,324 $ (2,305) $ 39,579 $ 2,933,539 15.97 % 4.35 %
2027 — 714,980 351,366 (2,344) 133,541 1,197,543 6.52 % 3.31 %
2028 — 2,525,010 189,887 (328) 32,130 2,746,699 14.96 % 3.83 %
2029 — 2,179,674 416,690 (95,567) 22,657 2,523,454 13.74 % 3.39 %
2030 — 1,750,000 157,587 (326) 1,473 1,908,734 10.39 % 3.86 %
2031 — 1,350,000 59,306 (343) 373,220 1,782,183 9.70 % 3.47 %
2032 — 1,050,000 70,974 (354) 49,728 1,170,348 6.37 % 3.49 %
2033 — — 419,389 (36,866) 649 383,172 2.09 % 4.82 %
2034 — 659,100 204,165 (8,051) 679 855,893 4.66 % 4.41 %
2035 — 1,250,000 42,236 (551) 21,961 1,313,646 7.15 % 5.06 %
Thereafter — 1,150,000 399,598 (140) — 1,549,458 8.45 % 4.98 %
Totals $ — $ 15,297,705 $ 2,538,522 $ (147,175) $ 675,617 $ 18,364,669 100.00 %
Weighted Avg. Interest Rate (5)
— % 3.94 % 4.04 % 4.46 % 5.32 % 4.00 %
Weighted Avg. Maturity Years — 4.8 6.7 4.5 4.2 5.0
% Floating Rate Debt (5)
— % 17.18 % 9.39 % 64.33 % 0.04 % 15.10 %
Debt by Local Currency (1)
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3)
Consolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (4)
Investment Hedges (6)
United States $ — $ 11,729,674 $ 1,721,942 $ (131,959) $ 626,415 $ 13,946,072 $ —
United Kingdom — 1,384,110 — — — 1,384,110 11,640,639
Canada — 2,183,921 816,580 (15,216) 49,202 3,034,487 6,505,742
Totals $ — $ 15,297,705 $ 2,538,522 $ (147,175) $ 675,617 $ 18,364,669 $ 18,146,381
Notes:
(1) Represents principal amounts due excluding unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(2) Our unsecured commercial paper program and our unsecured revolving credit facility had a zero balance as of March 31, 2026. The unsecured revolving credit facility is comprised of a $2,000,000,000 tranche that matures on July 24, 2029 and a $4,250,000,000 tranche that matures on March 6, 2030. The $4,250,000,000 tranche may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. Commercial paper borrowings are backstopped by the unsecured revolving credit facility.
(3) Senior Unsecured Notes include the following:
• 2026 includes CAD $2,747,615,000 of unsecured term loans (approximately $1,968,941,000 USD at March 31, 2026) that mature on October 9, 2026, and bear interest at adjusted CORRA + 0.70%.
• 2027 includes CAD $300,000,000 of 2.95% senior unsecured notes (approximately $214,980,000 USD at March 31, 2026) that mature on January 15, 2027.
• 2028 includes $1,035,000,000 of 2.75% exchangeable senior unsecured notes that mature on May 15, 2028 unless earlier exchanged, purchased or redeemed.
• 2028 also includes £550,000,000 of 4.80% senior unsecured notes (approximately $725,010,000 USD at March 31, 2026). The notes mature on November 20, 2028.
• 2029 includes $1,035,000,000 of 3.125% exchangeable senior unsecured notes that mature on July 15, 2029 unless earlier exchanged, purchased or redeemed.
• 2034 includes £500,000,000 of 4.50% senior unsecured notes (approximately $659,100,000 USD at March 31, 2026). The notes mature on December 1, 2034.
(4) Excludes operating lease liabilities of $1,528,863,000, finance lease liabilities of $522,410,000 and failed sale-leaseback financing obligations of $370,880,000 related to ASC 842.
(5) Based on variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of March 31, 2026. The interest rate on the unsecured revolving credit facility is SOFR + 0.655%. Commercial paper, senior notes and secured debt average interest rate represents the face value note rate. Includes the impact of notional swaps and caps to convert fixed rate debt to SOFR-based floating rate debt, and SOFR-based floating rate debt and CORRA-based floating rate debt to fixed rate debt.
(6) Represents notional value of foreign currency derivative contracts at end of period spot FX rates. The fair market value of the gains (losses) of these contracts is currently USD $(74,239,000), as represented in other assets (liabilities) on the balance sheet. We supplement our local currency debt with foreign currency derivative contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our international investments. Currently, our foreign currency derivatives are comprised of cross-currency swaps.
13
Glossary
Age: Current year, less the year built, adjusted for major renovations. Average age is weighted by pro rata NOI.
Cap-ex, Tenant Improvements, Leasing Commissions: Represents amounts incurred for: 1) recurring and non-recurring capital expenditures required to maintain and re-tenant our properties; 2) second generation tenant improvements; and 3) leasing commissions paid to third party leasing agents to secure new tenants. Excludes sustainability investments.
Construction Conversion: Represents completed construction projects that were placed into service and began generating NOI.
EBITDAR: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDAR and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDAR Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDAR to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDAR coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
EBITDARM: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDARM and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDARM Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDARM to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDARM coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations, assuming that management fees are not paid. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
Health System - Affiliated: Outpatient medical properties are considered affiliated with a health system if one or more of the following conditions are met: 1) the land parcel is contained within the physical boundaries of a hospital campus; 2) the land parcel is located adjacent to the campus; 3) the building is physically connected to the hospital regardless of the land ownership structure; 4) a ground lease is maintained with a health system entity; 5) a master lease is maintained with a health system entity; 6) significant square footage is leased to a health system entity; 7) the property includes an ambulatory surgery center with a hospital partnership interest; or 8) a significant square footage is leased to a physician group that is either employed, directly or indirectly by a health system, or has a significant clinical and financial affiliation with the health system.
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care: Includes all skilled nursing, rehabilitation and long-term/post-acute care facilities where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement and are subject to triple-net operating leases. Most of these facilities focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.
MSA: For the United States and Canada, we use the Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Census Metropolitan Areas as defined by Statistics Canada, respectively. For the United Kingdom, we generally use the Metro Region as defined by EuroStat with Greater London defined as a 55-mile radius around the city’s center.
Occupancy: Outpatient Medical occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied, including month-to-month leases, as of the date reported. Occupancy for all other property types represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the most recent quarter of available data and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and has not independently verified the information. Occupancy metrics are reflected at our pro rata share.
Outpatient Medical: Outpatient medical buildings include properties offering ambulatory medical services such as prima ry and secondary care, outpatient surgery, diagnostic procedures and rehabilitation. These properties are typically affiliated with a health system and may be located on a hospital campus. They are specifically designed and constructed for use by healthcare professionals to provide services to patients. They also include medical office buildings that typically contain sole and group physician practices and may provide laboratory and other specialty services.
Seniors Housing Operating (SHO): Includes independent, assisted living and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. generally structured to take advantage of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, as well as Wellness Housing properties.
Seniors Housing Triple-net (SH-NNN): Includes independent, assisted living and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. subject to triple-net operating leases.
Square Feet: Net rentable square feet calculated utilizing Building Owners and Managers Association measurement standards.
Stable: Generally, a triple-net rental property is considered stable (versus unstabilized or under development) when it has achieved EBITDAR coverage of 1.00x or greater for three consecutive months or, if targeted performance has not been achieved, 12 months following the budgeted stabilization date. Triple-net properties for which income is recognized on a cash basis and for which substantially all contractual rent during the period has not been collected are excluded from the stable portfolio. A Seniors Housing Operating facility is considered stable upon the earliest of 90% occupancy, NOI at or above the underwritten target or 12 months past the underwritten stabilization date. Excludes assets held for sale and assets disposed of during the current quarter.
Unstabilized: An acquisition that does not meet the stable criteria upon closing or a construction property that has opened but not yet reached stabilization.
14
Supplemental Reporting Measures
We believe that revenues and net income, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR, SS ExpPOR, NOI, In-Place NOI ("IPNOI") and Same Store NOI ("SSNOI") to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to managers, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and are unallocable to the properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. IPNOI represents cash NOI excluding interest income, other income and non-IPNOI and adjusted for timing of current quarter portfolio changes such as acquisitions, development conversions, segment transitions and dispositions. Properties classified as held for sale and leased properties are excluded from IPNOI. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and leased properties, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our portfolio.
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata share of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement, divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population, which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and include any revenue and expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses on disposition of properties and acquisitions of controlling interests, impairment of assets, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and secured debt principal amortization. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA, book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and consolidated enterprise value. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Consolidated enterprise value represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management performance. None of the supplemental reporting measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Multi-period amounts may not equal the sum of the individual quarterly amounts due to rounding.
15
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands)
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
NOI Reconciliation 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26
Net income (loss) $ 257,266 $ 304,618 $ 282,186 $ 117,767 $ 752,324
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (51,777) (14,850) (4,025) (1,378,391) (420,400)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities (1,263) 7,392 12,610 (4,442) 1,686
Income tax expense (benefit) (5,519) 1,053 2,335 (4,985) 11,633
Other expenses 14,060 16,598 44,699 125,844 61,137
Impairment of assets 52,402 19,876 3,081 45,924 4,826
Provision for loan losses, net (2,007) (1,113) 1,088 (7,384) 1,632
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 6,156 — — 3,089 727
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (3,210) (409) 31,682 (5,656) —
General and administrative expenses 63,758 64,175 63,124 1,557,378 67,474
Depreciation and amortization 485,869 495,036 509,812 594,151 622,752
Interest expense 144,962 141,157 162,052 203,784 192,715
Consolidated net operating income 960,697 1,033,533 1,108,644 1,247,079 1,296,506
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
28,316 26,069 29,337 26,430 48,240
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(14,284) (13,531) (12,280) (11,163) (11,785)
Pro rata net operating income (NOI) (3)
$ 974,729 $ 1,046,071 $ 1,125,701 $ 1,262,346 $ 1,332,961
In-Place NOI Reconciliation
At Welltower pro rata ownership Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Corporate Total
Revenues $ 2,823,788 $ 191,126 $ 76,524 $ 199,864 $ 126,639 $ 3,417,941
Property operating expenses (2,042,868) (4,827) (20,184) (2,893) (14,208) (2,084,980)
NOI (3)
780,920 186,299 56,340 196,971 112,431 1,332,961
Adjust:
Interest income — — — (8,077) (85,414) (93,491)
Other income (2,020) (40) (164) (192) (34,444) (36,860)
Sold / held for sale (2,359) (29) (23,178) (4,159) — (29,725)
Nonoperational (4)
1,259 5 8 (319) — 953
Non In-Place NOI (5)
(26,419) (30,491) (3,654) (38,242) 7,427 (91,379)
Timing adjustments (6)
8,492 29 — 131 — 8,652
Total adjustments (21,047) (30,526) (26,988) (50,858) (112,431) (241,850)
In-Place NOI 759,873 155,773 29,352 146,113 — 1,091,111
Annualized In-Place NOI $ 3,039,492 $ 623,092 $ 117,408 $ 584,452 $ — $ 4,364,444
Same Store Property Reconciliation
Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Total
Total properties 1,917 431 141 349 2,838
Recent acquisitions and development conversions (7)
(591) (174) (7) (141) (913)
Under development (40) — — — (40)
Under redevelopment (8)
(2) — — — (2)
Current held for sale (16) — (42) (2) (60)
Land parcels, loans and leased properties (176) (4) (6) (6) (192)
Transitions (9)
(163) (1) — (2) (166)
Other (10)
(8) — — (2) (10)
Same store properties 921 252 86 196 1,455
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents Welltower's pro rata share of NOI. See page 10 for more information.
(4) Primarily includes development properties and land parcels.
(5) Primarily represents non-cash NOI and NOI associated with leased properties.
(6) Represents timing adjustments for current quarter acquisitions, construction conversions and segment or operator transitions.
(7) Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the same store pool five full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy.
(8) Redevelopment properties will enter the same store pool after five full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion.
(9) Transitioned properties will enter the same store pool after five full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new structure.
(10) Represents properties that are either closed or being closed.
16
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Same Store NOI Reconciliation 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26 Y/o/Y
Seniors Housing Operating
NOI $ 490,648 $ 543,110 $ 579,559 $ 704,670 $ 780,920
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (4,423) (1,632) (1,956) (2,153) (1,479)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (57,288) (77,535) (97,717) (208,753) (248,830)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
6,273 632 (65) 528 (1,500)
Other normalizing adjustments (2)
449 3,801 2,844 2,139 2,706
SSNOI 435,659 468,376 482,665 496,431 531,817 22.1 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net
NOI 100,352 99,889 95,018 163,532 186,299
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (10,687) (10,120) (8,966) (8,053) (6,055)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (14,996) (13,588) (8,781) (77,489) (100,016)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
3,259 1,859 327 — (337)
Normalizing adjustments for joint venture recapitalization (3)
(1,394) (1,394) (465) — —
Other normalizing adjustments (2)
— — — (240) (353)
SSNOI 76,534 76,646 77,133 77,750 79,538 3.9 %
Outpatient Medical
NOI 147,889 150,521 153,387 103,862 56,340
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (2,857) (2,783) (2,592) (2,507) (2,442)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (121,744) (123,951) (127,151) (77,562) (30,000)
Other normalizing adjustments (2)
(3) (112) (16) (3) (56)
SSNOI 23,285 23,675 23,628 23,790 23,842 2.4 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
NOI 142,143 161,523 180,846 208,872 196,971
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (16,554) (16,997) (16,728) (16,227) (16,249)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (42,179) (61,111) (79,861) (107,311) (89,906)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
185 126 118 94 (21)
Normalizing adjustment for lease restructure (4)
— — — — (4,031)
Normalizing adjustments for service agreement termination (5)
970 970 647 — —
SSNOI 84,565 84,511 85,022 85,428 86,764 2.6 %
Corporate
NOI 93,697 91,028 116,891 81,410 112,431
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (93,697) (91,028) (116,891) (81,410) (112,431)
SSNOI — — — — —
Total
NOI 974,729 1,046,071 1,125,701 1,262,346 1,332,961
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (34,521) (31,532) (30,242) (28,940) (26,225)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (329,904) (367,213) (430,401) (552,525) (581,183)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
9,717 2,617 380 622 (1,858)
Normalizing adjustments, net 22 3,265 3,010 1,896 (1,734)
SSNOI $ 620,043 $ 653,208 $ 668,448 $ 683,399 $ 721,961 16.4 %
Notes:
(1) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.43 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.23.
(2) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type.
(3) Represents normalizing adjustment related to a joint venture recapitalization associated with one Seniors Housing Triple-net lease.
(4) Represents normalizing adjustment related to lease restructures with two Long-Term/Post-Acute Care leases.
(5) Represents normalizing adjustment related to the termination of a service agreement related to one Long-Term/Post-Acute Care lease.
17
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands, except RevPOR, SS RevPOR and SSNOI/unit)
SHO RevPOR Reconciliation United States United Kingdom Canada Total
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 1,642,960 $ 962,582 $ 184,832 $ 2,790,374
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to Welltower (1)
46,106 6,965 2,257 55,328
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(19,206) — (2,708) (21,914)
Pro rata SHO revenues (3)
1,669,860 969,547 184,381 2,823,788
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues (3,203) (772) (235) (4,210)
Revenues attributable to non in-place properties (5,332) (215,543) (8,442) (229,317)
SHO local revenues 1,661,325 753,232 175,704 2,590,261
Average occupied units/month 91,106 29,635 19,676 140,417
RevPOR/month in USD $ 6,163 $ 8,590 $ 3,018 $ 6,234
RevPOR/month in local currency (4)
£ 6,984 $ 4,311
Reconciliations of SHO SS RevPOR Growth, SSNOI Growth and SSNOI/Unit
United States United Kingdom Canada Total
1Q25 1Q26 1Q25 1Q26 1Q25 1Q26 1Q25 1Q26
SHO SS RevPOR Growth
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 1,396,502 $ 1,642,960 $ 322,505 $ 962,582 $ 148,864 $ 184,832 $ 1,867,871 $ 2,790,374
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
41,589 46,106 4,337 6,965 10,504 2,257 56,430 55,328
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(20,799) (19,206) — — (2,275) (2,708) (23,074) (21,914)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
1,417,292 1,669,860 326,842 969,547 157,093 184,381 1,901,227 2,823,788
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (4,912) (2,275) — — (170) (241) (5,082) (2,516)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (176,782) (308,226) (130,012) (738,669) (37,042) (47,154) (343,836) (1,094,049)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
4,912 — 10,998 (2,994) 4,072 (1,725) 19,982 (4,719)
Other normalizing adjustments (5)
— (419) — — — — — (419)
SHO SS RevPOR revenues (6)
$ 1,240,510 $ 1,358,940 $ 207,828 $ 227,884 $ 123,953 $ 135,261 $ 1,572,291 $ 1,722,085
Avg. occupied units/month (7)
67,813 70,912 6,980 7,310 14,326 14,765 89,119 92,987
SHO SS RevPOR (8)
$ 6,182 $ 6,477 $ 10,063 $ 10,536 $ 2,924 $ 3,096 $ 5,963 $ 6,259
SS RevPOR YOY growth 4.8 % 4.7 % 5.9 % 5.0 %
SHO SSNOI Growth
Consolidated SHO NOI $ 363,213 $ 495,848 $ 66,561 $ 205,996 $ 53,413 $ 73,169 $ 483,187 $ 775,013
Unconsolidated SHO NOI attributable to WELL (1)
15,696 17,194 708 1,636 4,142 1,175 20,546 20,005
SHO NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(12,024) (12,761) — — (1,061) (1,337) (13,085) (14,098)
SHO pro rata NOI (3)
366,885 500,281 67,269 207,632 56,494 73,007 490,648 780,920
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (4,414) (1,511) (9) 45 — (13) (4,423) (1,479)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (27,127) (85,790) (16,336) (143,205) (13,825) (19,835) (57,288) (248,830)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
2,006 — 2,803 (823) 1,464 (677) 6,273 (1,500)
Other normalizing adjustments (5)
802 2,671 — — (353) 35 449 2,706
SHO pro rata SSNOI (6)
$ 338,152 $ 415,651 $ 53,727 $ 63,649 $ 43,780 $ 52,517 $ 435,659 $ 531,817
SHO SSNOI growth 22.9 % 18.5 % 20.0 % 22.1 %
SHO SSNOI/Unit
Trailing four quarters' SSNOI (6)
$ 1,545,094 $ 237,738 $ 196,457 $ 1,979,289
Average units in service (9)
79,974 8,445 16,065 104,484
SSNOI/unit in USD $ 19,320 $ 28,151 $ 12,229 $ 18,943
SSNOI/unit in local currency (4)
£ 22,887 $ 17,470
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents SHO revenues/NOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 10 for more information.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.43 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.23.
(5) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than 0.50% of SSNOI growth.
(6) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues/SSNOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 17 for more information.
(7) Represents average occupied units for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
(8) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per oc cupied room per month.
(9) Represents average units in service for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
18
Forward-Looking Statement and Risk Factors
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This document contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "pro forma," "estimate" or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower's actual results to differ materially from Welltower's expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical developments, including economic downturns, elevated inflation and interest rates, political or social conflict, unrest or violence or similar events; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the healthcare industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements, public perception of the healthcare industry and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the healthcare and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower's ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters, public health emergencies and extreme weather affecting Welltower's properties; Welltower's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower's ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower's properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower's financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates and changes to U.S. and global monetary, fiscal or trade policies; Welltower's approach to artificial intelligence; Welltower's ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; geopolitical tension or conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, and other risks described in Welltower's reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Additional Information
The information in this supplemental information package should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our earnings press release d ated April 28, 2026 an d other information filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Supplemental Reporting Measures and reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are an integral part of the information presented herein.
You can access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act at www.welltower.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You can also review these SEC filings and other information by accessing the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading "Investors." Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the SEC. The information on or connected to our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of, or incorporated into this supplemental information package.
About Welltower
Welltower Inc. (NYSE: WELL), an S&P 500 company, is positioned at the center of the silver economy, focusing on rental housing for aging seniors across the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Our portfolio of 2,500+ seniors and wellness housing communities is positioned at the intersection of housing and hospitality, creating vibrant communities for mature renters and older adults. We believe our real estate portfolio is unmatched, located in highly attractive micromarkets with stunning built environments. Yet, we are an unusual real estate organization as we view ourselves as an operating company in a real estate wrapper, driven by highly-aligned partnerships and an unconventional culture. Through our disciplined approach to capital allocation powered by our Data Science platform and superior operating results driven by the Welltower Business System - our end-to-end operating platform - we aspire to deliver long-term compounding of per share growth for our existing investors, our North Star. More information is available at www.welltower.com.
19
