---
doc_type: sec_filing
source: sec_edgar
ticker: WELL
accession_number: 0000766704-26-000005
form_type: 8-K
items:
- '2.02'
- '9.01'
filed_date: '2026-02-10'
filing_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670426000005/well-20260210.htm
press_release_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/766704/000076670426000005/a4q25earningsrelease991.htm
tickers:
- WELL
themes:
- demographic_demand_tailwinds
ingestion_date: '2026-07-09'
extraction_source: v3 SEC filings pipeline (sec_filings.py); EDGAR; claude-extracted
  themes
---

# WELL 8-K — filed 2026-02-10

## 8-K body

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 10, 2026
Welltower Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 1-8923 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction
of Incorporation) (Commission
File Number) (IRS Employer
Identification No.)
4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: ( 419 ) 247-2800
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock, $1.00 par value per share WELL New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.800% Notes due 2028 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/28 New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.500% Notes due 2034 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/34 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 10, 2026 , Welltower Inc. issued a press release that announced operating results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2025. The press release refers to a supplemental information package that is available on the Company's website (www.welltower.com), free of charge. Copies of the press release and supplemental information package have been furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Report"), and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press release of Welltower Inc. dated February 10, 2026, announcing earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2025.
99.2 Welltower Inc. Supplemental Information Package for the quarter ended December 31, 2025.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
WELLTOWER INC.
By: /s/ Matthew McQueen
Name: Matthew McQueen
Title: Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel
Dated: February 10, 2026

## Exhibit EX-99.1

EX-99.1
2
a4q25earningsrelease991.htm
EX-99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 10, 2026
For more information contact:
Tim McHugh (419) 247-2800
Welltower Reports Fourth Quarter 2025 Results
Toledo, Ohio, February 10, 2026 ….. Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL ) today announced results for the quarter ended December 31, 2025.
Fourth Quarter and Other Recent Highlights
• Reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.14 per diluted share
• Reported quarterly normalized funds from operations attributable to common stockholders of $1.45 per diluted share, an increase of 28.3% over the prior year
• Reported total portfolio year-over-year same store NOI ("SSNOI") growth of 15.0%, driven by SSNOI growth in our Seniors Housing Operating ("SHO") portfolio of 20.4%
• SHO portfolio organic same store revenue growth increased 9.6% year-over-year in the fourth quarter, resulting from 400 basis points ("bps") of average occupancy growth and 4.7% growth in Revenue Per Occupied Room ("RevPOR"); SSNOI margin expanded by 270 bps year-over-year
• During the fourth quarter, we completed $13.9 billion of pro rata gross investments, which included the closing of all previously announced acquisitions in the U.K.
• Additionally, we completed $7.5 billion of pro rata dispositions and loan payoffs during the fourth quarter, with volume and pace of activity exceeding prior expectations. Pro rata property dispositions of $6.1 billion included the earlier-than-anticipated sale of the first three tranches of the previously announced Outpatient Medical ("OM") real estate portfolio in addition to the previously unannounced sale of skilled nursing properties. We also received $1.4 billion in loan repayment proceeds
• Subsequent to year end, we have closed or are under contract to close newly announced pro rata gross investments, exclusive of development funding of $5.7 billion
• During the fourth quarter, we closed our inaugural private fund vehicle, Seniors Housing Fund I, securing approximately $2.5 billion of total equity commitments. Additionally, during the fourth quarter we launched Seniors Housing Debt Fund I
• As of December 31, 2025, reported Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA of 3.03x and approximately $10.2 billion of available liquidity inclusive of $5.2 billion of available cash and restricted cash and full capacity under our $5.0 billion line of credit
• Expanded the previously announced 10 Year Executive Continuity and Alignment Program to include seven Executive Vice Presidents of Welltower who have agreed to a reduced annual salary and a single, long-term equity-based incentive award which is 75% performance-based. In addition to the five named executive officers of Welltower, the "all-in" incentive structure now encompasses 12 leaders who will receive no additional compensation, beyond a reduced annual base salary and one-time equity-based incentive award
2025 Annual Highlights
• Reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $1.39 per diluted share
• Reported annual normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders of $5.29 per diluted share, an increase of 22.5% over the prior year
• Meaningfully amplified the Company's long-term growth trajectory through the completion of $11 billion of pro rata net investments, excluding development funding, anchored by acquisitions of seniors housing communities in the U.S. and U.K. and disposition of lower growth outpatient medical properties
• Announced the next era of our journey, "Welltower 3.0", underscoring our commitment to modernizing the seniors housing sector through a reimagined customer journey and technology ecosystem, which includes the hiring of Jeff Stott, formerly with Extra Space Storage, as our Chief Technology Officer
Page 1 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
• Deepened economic alignment between our shareholders and key operating partners via the introduction of RIDEA 6.0 contracts and creation of the Welltower Fellowship Grant ($10 million annually) to honor the memory of Charles T. Munger and provide direct financial recognition to front-line staff at our best performing seniors housing communities
• S&P Global Ratings ("S&P") and Moody's Investor Services, Inc. ("Moody's") raised their credit ratings related to Welltower to "A-" with a stable outlook and to "A3" with a stable outlook, respectively
• The Board of Directors approved a 10.4% increase in the quarterly dividend per share, reflecting solid financial performance and the Board's confidence in the durability of outsized levels of cash flow growth. The dividend is further supported by a low payout ratio and low-levered balance sheet
2025 Annual Capital Activity and Liquidity
Liquidity Update Net debt to consolidated enterprise value decreased t o 10.0% as of December 31, 2025 from 12.9% as of December 31, 2024. We sourced over $23 billion of attractively priced capital, including the issuance of senior unsecured notes, the assumption of below-market debt, equity issuances and proceeds from dispositions and loan repayments to fund accretive capital deployment opportunities.
Credit Rating On March 31, 2025 S&P increased our credit rating to "A-" with a stable outlook and Moody's increased our credit rating to "A3" with a stable outlook, resulting in improved pricing across our term loans. S&P cited a continued benefit from robust industry tailwinds and the material strengthening of our balance sheet as drivers of the ratings upgrade. S&P also stated that it expects strong operating performance to drive additional improvement to credit metrics over the next two years, driven by beneficial industry supply and demand dynamics along with, as S&P noted, our superior operating platform, providing an expected competitive advantage relative to peers. Additionally, Moody's highlighted our improvement in leverage over the past year, partially driven by strong revenue and earnings growth. Moody's expects benefits from an acceleration in the growth of the aging population and an expansion in our addressable market, to lead to meeting or exceeding growth guidance and further strengthening our financial metrics.
Unsecured Senior Note Activity In June 2025, we repaid our $1.25 billion 4.0% senior unsecured notes at maturity and completed the issuance of $600 million of 4.5% senior unsecured notes due 2030 and $650 million of 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2035. We completed a follow-on issuance in August 2025 of $400 million of 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2030 and $600 million of 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2035. These notes are fungible with and form a single series with the notes of the applicable series issued in June 2025.
Fourth Quarter Investment Activity
In the fourth quarter, we completed $13.9 billion of pro rata gross investments, which includes $1.2 billion in loan funding and $112 million in development funding. Additionally, we completed pro rata property dispositions of $6.1 billion and loan repayments of $1.4 billion, representing a volume and pace exceeding our prior expectations. We completed and placed into service five development projects, including partial conversions and expansions, for an aggregate pro rata investment amount of $173 million.
Barchester Acquisition In October 2025, we acquired a real estate portfolio in the U.K. for approximately £5.2 billion operated by Barchester. The portfolio is comprised of 111 communities managed by Barchester in a RIDEA structure, 150 communities subject to a long-term triple-net lease and 21 ongoing developments which will also be managed in a RIDEA structure following development conversion. The operating portfolio, comprised of both stabilized and lease up properties, is positioned for significant future growth with blended portfolio occupancy in the high 70%s. Moreover, the triple-net lease is structured with 3.5% annual escalators and a coverage-based rent reset every five years at our election. Overall, the acquisition is underwritten to achieve an unlevered IRR in the low-double-digit range. As part of the transaction, we have formed an exclusive long-term partnership with Barchester.
HC-One Group Acquisition and Loan Payoff In October 2025, we acquired 100% of the equity ownership of the portfolio in the U.K. operated by HC-One for £1.2 billion, creating a long duration, growing cash flow stream. In conjunction with the transaction, our existing £660 million loan was repaid.
OM Portfolio Disposition We previously entered into a definitive agreement to divest an 18 million square foot OM portfolio in a transaction valued at approximately $7.2 billion. The portfolio is expected to be sold in multiple tranches through mid-2026, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions. During the fourth quarter, we completed the sale of 241 properties for pro rata proceeds of $5.2 billion, a pace exceeding our prior expectations, and resulting in a gain of $881 million.
Disposition Activity
As of December 31, 2025, total 2025 and 2026 disposition activity, inclusive of closed amounts and guidance, is expected to be $11.8 billion as compared to $9.8 billion as of September 30, 2025.
2025 Disposition Activity As of September 30, 2025, we had completed $0.8 billion of dispositions year-to-date and anticipated an additional $9.0 billion of dispositions over the subsequent 12 months, consisting predominantly of $7.2 billion of OM property sales and $1.8 billion of loan repayments. Therefore, as of September 30, 2025, total disposition volume closed year-to-date and anticipated to close totaled $9.8 billion. In addition to the $9.8 billion of dispositions closed year-to-date or anticipated to close as of September 30, 2025, during the fourth quarter we entered into an agreement to sell $1.3 billion as part of our Integra joint venture.
Page 2 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
The volume and pace of our disposition activity in the fourth quarter 2025 exceeded our prior expectations with $7.5 billion of completed sales:
• $5.2 billion of OM sales, surpassing our initial expectations for the quarter
• $1.4 billion of loan repayments, also representing a pace ahead of our initial expectations
• $0.8 billion of skilled nursing properties as part of our Integra joint venture, which had not previously been contemplated in our disposition guidance as of September 30, 2025
Total dispositions for the full year 2025 totaled $8.2 billion.
2026 Disposition Activity For 2026, we anticipate approximately $3.5 billion of total dispositions, comprised of previously announced deals and incremental disposition activity, with sales weighted towards the first quarter of the year, including $1.9 billion of previously announced OM sales, $0.3 billion of newly announced OM sales, $0.7 billion of loan repayments and an additional $0.5 billion of Integra portfolio sales, as mentioned above.
Notable Portfolio Activity Completed or Announced During 2025
During 2025, we completed $11 billion of pro rata net investments, excluding development funding, comprised of high-quality seniors housing communities across the U.S. and U.K. Additionally, we announced the sale of a 319 property OM portfolio. Through an enhanced focus and increased seniors housing concentration within our portfolio, we expect to extend the duration of our cash flow growth and increase our terminal growth rate.
Private Funds Management Business In January 2025, we announced our foray into the capital light, private funds management business with the launch of our first seniors housing investment fund, Seniors Housing Fund I LP (the "Fund"). In the fourth quarter of 2025, we closed the Fund with approximately $2.5 billion of total equity commitments, which includes commitments from eight global, third-party institutional LPs with ADIA as the anchor investor. Thus far, approximately 50% of committed equity capital has been deployed. Welltower serves as the general partner and asset manager and has a limited partner interest in the Fund.
In the fourth quarter of 2025, we launched our second fund, Seniors Housing Debt Fund I LP.
Dividend O n February 10, 2026, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2025 of $0.74 per share. This dividend, which will be paid on March 10, 2026 to stockholders of record as of February 25, 2026, will b e our 219th consecutive quarterly cash dividend. The declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends remains subject to review an d approval by the Board of Directors.
Outlook for 2026 We are introducing our 2026 earnings guidance and expect to report net income attributable to common stockholders guidance in a range of $3.11 to $3.27 per diluted share and normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders in a range of $6.09 to $6.25 per diluted share. In preparing our guidance, we have made the following assumptions:
• Same Store NOI: We expect average blended SSNOI growth of 11.25% to 15.75%, which is comprised of the following components:
◦ Seniors Housing Operating approximately 15.0% to 21.0%
◦ Seniors Housing Triple-net approximately 3.0% to 4.0%
◦ Outpatient Medical approximately 2.0% to 3.0%
◦ Long-Term/Post-Acute Care approximately 2.0% to 3.0%
• Investments: Our earnings guidance includes only those acquisitions announced or closed to date. Furthermore, no transitions, restructures or capital activity beyond those announced to date are included.
• General and Administrative Expenses: We anticipate general and administrative expenses to be approximately $260 million to $270 million. General and administrative guidance and 2026 normalized FFO guidance include anticipated stock-based compensation expense of approximately $60 million, or approximately $0.08 per diluted share.
• Development: We anticipate funding an additional $370 million of development in 2026 relating to projects underway as of December 31, 2025.
• Dispositions: We expect pro rata disposition proceeds of $3.5 billion at a blended yield of 6.8% in the next twelve months. This includes approximately $2.7 billion of consideration from expected property sales and $0.7 billion of expected proceeds from loan repayments.
Our guidance does not include any additional investments, dispositions or capital transactions, nor any other expenses, impairments, unanticipated additions to the loan loss reserve or other additional normalizing items beyond those disclosed. Please see the Supplemental Reporting Measures section for further discussion and our definition of normalized FFO and SSNOI and Exhibit 3 for a reconciliation of the outlook for net income available to common stockholders to normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders. We will provide additional detail regarding our 2026 outlook and assumptions on the fourth quarter 2025 conference call.
Page 3 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
Conference Call Information We have scheduled a conference c all on Wednesday, February 11, 2026 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss our fourth quarter 2025 results, industry tren ds and portfolio performance. Telephone access will be available by dialing (888) 340-5024 or (646) 960-0135 (international). For those unable to listen to the call live, a taped rebroadcast will be available beginning two hours after completion of the call through February 18, 2026. To access the rebroadcast, dial (800) 770-2030 or (609) 800-9909 (international). The conference ID number is 8230248. To particip ate in the webcast, log on to www.welltower.com 15 minutes before the call to download the necessary software. Replays will be available for 90 days.
Supplemental Reporting Measures We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders ("NICS"), as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider funds from operations ("FFO"), normalized FFO, net operating income ("NOI"), same store NOI ("SSNOI"), revenue per occupied room ("RevPOR"), same store RevPOR ("SS RevPOR"), expense per occupied room ("ExpPOR"), same store ExpPOR ("SS ExpPOR"), EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed o n our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO attributable to common stockholders, as defined by NAREIT, means net income attributable to common stockholders, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and acquisitions of controlling interests, impairments of depreciable assets, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests. Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders represents FFO attributable to common stockholders adjusted for certain items detailed in Exhibit 2. We believe that normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance because investors and equity analysts may use this measure to compare the operating performance of Welltower between periods or as compared to other REITs or other companies on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated and/or incalculable items.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to managers, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and are unallocable to the properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and leased properties, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our portfolio. No reconciliation of the forecasted range for SSNOI on a combined basis or by property type is included in this release because we are unable to quantify certain amounts that would be required to be included in the comparable GAAP financial measure without unreasonable efforts, and we believe such reconciliation would imply a degree of precision that could be confusing or misleading to investors.
Page 4 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata share of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement, divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population, which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and include any revenue and expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses on disposition of properties and acquisitions of controlling interests, impairment of assets, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. In addition, we use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest expense and secured debt principal amortization. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA and consolidated enterprise value. Net debt is defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Consolidated enterprise value represents the sum of net debt, the fair market value of our common stock and noncontrolling interests.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management performance. None of the supplemental reporting measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Please see the exhibits for reconciliations of supplemental reporting measures and the supplemental information package for the quarter ended December 31, 2025, which is available on Welltower's website (www.welltower.com), for information and reconciliations of additional supplemental reporting measures.
About Welltower Welltower Inc. (NYSE: WELL), an S&P 500 company, is positioned at the center of the silver economy, focusing on rental housing for aging seniors across the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Our portfolio of 2,500+ seniors and wellness housing communities are positioned at the intersection of housing and hospitality, creating vibrant communities for mature renters and older adults. We believe our real estate portfolio is unmatched, located in highly attractive micromarkets with stunning built environments. Yet, we are an unusual real estate organization as we view ourselves as an operating company in a real estate wrapper, driven by highly-aligned partnerships and an unconventional culture. Through our disciplined approach to capital allocation powered by our Data Science platform and superior operating results driven by the Welltower Business System - our end-to-end operating platform - we aspire to deliver long-term compounding of per share growth for our existing investors, our North Star.
We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the "Investors" section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading "Investors". Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this press release and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This document contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "pro forma," "estimate" or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. These statements include, among others, management's expectations regarding the favorable impact of the acquisitions made and additional acquisition pipeline and our statements under the section "Outlook for 2026." Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower's actual results to differ materially from Welltower's expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical developments, including economic downturns, elevated inflation and interest rates, political or social conflict, unrest or violence or similar events; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the healthcare industry, including compliance with,
Page 5 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements, public perception of the healthcare industry and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the healthcare and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower's ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters, public health emergencies and extreme weather affecting Welltower's properties; Welltower's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower's ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower's properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower's financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates and changes to U.S. and global monetary, fiscal or trade policies; Welltower's approach to artificial intelligence; Welltower's ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower's reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Page 6 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
Welltower Inc.
Financial Exhibits
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(in thousands)
December 31,
2025 2024
Assets
Real estate investments:
Land and land improvements $ 6,681,131 $ 5,271,418
Buildings and improvements 52,058,099 42,207,735
Acquired lease intangibles 2,845,686 2,548,766
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 1,450,137 51,866
Construction in progress 738,859 1,219,720
Less accumulated depreciation and intangible amortization (10,350,621) (10,626,263)
Net real property owned 53,423,291 40,673,242
Right of use assets, net 2,158,045 1,201,131
Investments in sales-type leases, net 497,963 172,260
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 1,831,210 1,805,044
Net real estate investments 57,910,509 43,851,677
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 1,809,590 1,768,772
Cash and cash equivalents 5,033,678 3,506,586
Restricted cash 175,861 204,871
Receivables and other assets 2,373,409 1,712,402
Total other assets 9,392,538 7,192,631
Total assets $ 67,303,047 $ 51,044,308
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ —
Senior unsecured notes 16,383,522 13,162,102
Secured debt 2,813,780 2,338,155
Lease liabilities 2,182,993 1,258,099
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 2,719,813 1,713,366
Total liabilities 24,100,108 18,471,722
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 263,223 256,220
Equity:
Common stock 696,621 637,002
Capital in excess of par value 50,898,707 40,016,503
Treasury stock (14,405) (114,176)
Cumulative net income 11,033,569 10,096,724
Cumulative dividends (20,197,353) (18,320,064)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (287,641) (359,781)
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders' equity 42,129,498 31,956,208
Noncontrolling interests 810,218 360,158
Total equity 42,939,716 32,316,366
Total liabilities and equity $ 67,303,047 $ 51,044,308
Page 7 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)
Three Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
December 31, December 31,
2025 2024 2025 2024
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 2,556,052 $ 1,761,878 $ 8,452,996 $ 6,027,149
Rental income 523,853 386,329 1,967,935 1,570,278
Interest income 54,442 71,028 246,205 256,191
Other income 46,664 31,595 170,898 137,500
Total revenues 3,181,011 2,250,830 10,838,034 7,991,118
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 1,933,932 1,409,300 6,488,081 4,830,211
Depreciation and amortization 594,151 480,406 2,084,868 1,632,093
Interest expense 203,784 154,469 651,955 574,261
General and administrative expenses 1,557,378 48,707 1,748,435 235,491
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (5,656) (9,102) 22,407 (27,887)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 3,089 — 9,245 2,130
Provision for loan losses, net (7,384) (245) (9,416) 10,125
Impairment of assets 45,924 23,647 121,283 92,793
Other expenses 125,844 34,405 201,201 117,459
Total expenses 4,451,062 2,141,587 11,318,059 7,466,676
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and other items (1,270,051) 109,243 (480,025) 524,442
Income tax (expense) benefit 4,985 (114) 7,116 (2,700)
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 4,442 6,429 (14,297) (496)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net 1,378,391 8,195 1,449,043 451,611
Income (loss) from continuing operations 117,767 123,753 961,837 972,857
Net income (loss) 117,767 123,753 961,837 972,857
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1)
21,326 3,782 24,992 21,177
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 96,441 $ 119,971 $ 936,845 $ 951,680
Average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 689,582 625,675 665,639 602,975
Diluted 710,167 634,259 679,521 608,750
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:
Basic $ 0.14 $ 0.19 $ 1.41 $ 1.58
Diluted (2)
$ 0.14 $ 0.19 $ 1.39 $ 1.57
Common dividends per share $ 0.74 $ 0.67 $ 2.82 $ 2.56
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
(2) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP Units and DownREIT Units.
Page 8 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
FFO Reconciliations Exhibit 1
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
December 31, December 31,
2025 2024 2025 2024
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 96,441 $ 119,971 $ 936,845 $ 951,680
Depreciation and amortization 594,151 480,406 2,084,868 1,632,093
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (1,332,467) 15,452 (1,327,760) (358,818)
Noncontrolling interests (1)
11,940 (6,667) (13,144) (30,812)
Unconsolidated entities (2)
32,598 27,978 137,143 129,290
NAREIT FFO attributable to common stockholders (597,337) 637,140 1,817,952 2,323,433
Normalizing items, net (3)
1,625,396 78,775 1,773,714 303,324
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 1,028,059 $ 715,915 $ 3,591,666 $ 2,626,757
Average diluted common shares outstanding
For net income (loss) and Normalized FFO 710,167 634,259 679,521 608,750
For NAREIT FFO 689,582 634,259 679,521 608,750
Per diluted share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income (loss) (4)
$ 0.14 $ 0.19 $ 1.39 $ 1.57
NAREIT FFO $ (0.87) $ 1.00 $ 2.68 $ 3.82
Normalized FFO $ 1.45 $ 1.13 $ 5.29 $ 4.32
Normalized FFO Payout Ratio:
Dividends per common share $ 0.74 $ 0.67 $ 2.82 $ 2.56
Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders per share $ 1.45 $ 1.13 $ 5.29 $ 4.32
Normalized FFO payout ratio 51 % 59 % 53 % 59 %
Other items: (5)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization (6)
$ (72,863) $ (36,259) $ (221,708) $ (156,460)
Non-cash interest expenses (7)
12,995 13,731 51,230 44,335
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions (8)
(120,858) (81,196) (370,693) (286,613)
Stock-based compensation (9)
18,322 9,782 58,462 41,068
(1) Represents noncontrolling interests' share of net FFO adjustments.
(2) Represents Welltower's share of net FFO adjustments from unconsolidated entities.
(3) See Exhibit 2.
(4) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP Units and DownREIT Units.
(5) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and including Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(6) Excludes normalized other impairment (see Exhibit 2).
(7) Excludes normalized foreign currency loss (gain) (see Exhibit 2).
(8) Reflects recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions on owned operational properties.
(9) Excludes normalized stock compensation expense related to the Ten Year Executive Continuity and Alignment Program, the 2021 Special Performance Option Awards and 2022-2025 OPP.
Page 9 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
Normalizing Items Exhibit 2
(in thousands, except per share data) Three Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
December 31, December 31,
2025 2024 2025 2024
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net $ (5,656) (1) $ (9,102) $ 22,407 $ (27,887)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 3,089 (2) — 9,245 2,130
Provision for loan losses, net (7,384) (3) (245) (9,416) 10,125
Income tax benefits (188) (4) (5,140) (8,369) (5,140)
Other impairment — 41,978 604 139,652
Other expenses 125,844 (5) 34,405 201,201 117,459
Special incentive plan compensation 1,489,426 (6) 3,576 1,497,396 33,414
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 3,115 (7) 4,926 11,367 12,261
Foreign currency loss (gain) 2,090 (8) 1,913 2,088 556
Normalizing items attributable to noncontrolling interests and unconsolidated entities, net 15,060 (9) 6,464 47,191 20,754
Net normalizing items $ 1,625,396 $ 78,775 $ 1,773,714 $ 303,324
Average diluted common shares outstanding 710,167 634,259 679,521 608,750
Net normalizing items per diluted share $ 2.29 $ 0.12 $ 2.61 $ 0.50
(1) Primarily related to mark-to-market of the equity warrants received as part of the Safanad/HC-One transaction. The warrants were settled in conjunction with the HC-One acquisition in October.
(2) Primarily related to the extinguishment of secured debt.
(3) Primarily related to adjustments to reserves for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard.
(4) Primarily related to the release of valuation allowances.
(5) Primarily related to non-capitalizable transaction costs and legal fees.
(6) Primarily related to expenses recognized on the Ten Year Executive Continuity and Alignment Program for named executive officers and key employees, the 2021 Special Performance Option Awards and 2022-2025 Outperformance Program (“OPP”).
(7) Primarily relates to casualty losses net of any insurance recoveries.
(8) Primarily relates to foreign currency gains and losses related to accrued interest on intercompany loans and third party debt denominated in a foreign currency.
(9) Primarily relates to hypothetical liquidation at book value adjustments related to in substance real estate investments.
Outlook Reconciliation: Year Ending December 31, 2026 Exhibit 3
(in millions, except per share data) Current Outlook
Low High
FFO Reconciliation:
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2,244 $ 2,359
Impairments and losses (gains) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (1)
(564) (564)
Depreciation and amortization (1)
2,712 2,712
NAREIT and Normalized FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 4,392 $ 4,507
Diluted per share data attributable to common stockholders:
Net income $ 3.11 $ 3.27
NAREIT and Normalized FFO $ 6.09 $ 6.25
Other items: (1)
Net straight-line rent and above/below market rent amortization $ (289) $ (289)
Non-cash interest expenses 52 52
Recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions (2)
(459) (459)
Stock-based compensation 63 63
(1) Amounts presented net of noncontrolling interests' share and Welltower's share of unconsolidated entities.
(2) Reflects recurring cap-ex, tenant improvements and lease commissions on owned operational properties.
Page 10 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
SSNOI Reconciliation Exhibit 4
(in thousands) Three Months Ended
December 31,
2025 2024 % growth
Net income (loss) $ 117,767 $ 123,753
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (1,378,391) (8,195)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities (4,442) (6,429)
Income tax expense (benefit) (4,985) 114
Other expenses 125,844 34,405
Impairment of assets 45,924 23,647
Provision for loan losses, net (7,384) (245)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 3,089 —
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (5,656) (9,102)
General and administrative expenses 1,557,378 48,707
Depreciation and amortization 594,151 480,406
Interest expense 203,784 154,469
Consolidated NOI 1,247,079 841,530
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
26,430 31,158
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(11,163) (15,328)
Pro rata NOI 1,262,346 857,360
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties
(22,971) (25,462)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties
(590,634) (275,531)
Currency and ownership adjustments (3)
(6,519) 1,077
Normalizing adjustments, net (4)
1,119 1,995
Same Store NOI (SSNOI) $ 643,341 $ 559,439 15.0%
Seniors Housing Operating 469,183 389,654 20.4%
Seniors Housing Triple-net 75,170 73,252 2.6%
Outpatient Medical 23,778 23,223 2.4%
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 75,210 73,310 2.6%
Total SSNOI
$ 643,341 $ 559,439 15.0%
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.43 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.23.
(4) Includes other adjustments described in the accompanying Supplement.
Page 11 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
Reconciliation of SHO SS RevPOR Growth Exhibit 5
(in thousands except SS RevPOR) Three Months Ended
December 31,
2025 2024
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 2,575,377 $ 1,764,329
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
53,225 66,122
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(21,043) (22,426)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
2,607,559 1,808,025
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (2,997) (2,514)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (1,020,203) (372,498)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
(18,358) (3,953)
SHO SS RevPOR revenues (5)
$ 1,566,001 $ 1,429,060
Average occupied units/month (6)
88,533 84,620
SHO SS RevPOR (7)
$ 5,848 $ 5,583
SS RevPOR YOY growth 4.7 %
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents SHO revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(4) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages and foreign currency exchange rates for properties in the U.K. and Canada.
(5) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues at Welltower pro rata ownership.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per occupied room per month.
Page 12 of 13
4Q25 Earnings Release February 10, 2026
Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Fixed Charge Ratio Reconciliation Exhibit 6
(in thousands) Three Months Ended
December 31,
2025
Net income (loss) $ 117,767
Interest expense 203,784
Income tax expense (benefit) (4,985)
Depreciation and amortization 594,151
EBITDA 910,717
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities (4,442)
Stock-based compensation 1,507,748
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 3,089
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (1,378,391)
Impairment of assets 45,924
Provision for loan losses, net (7,384)
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (5,656)
Other expenses 125,844
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 3,115
Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,200,564
Total debt (1)
$ 19,737,446
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (5,209,539)
Net debt $ 14,527,907
Adjusted EBITDA annualized $ 4,802,256
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 3.03x
Interest expense $ 203,784
Capitalized interest 7,476
Non-cash interest expense (14,546)
Total interest 196,714
Secured financing principal amortization 16,698
Total fixed charges $ 213,412
Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,200,564
Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio 5.63x
(1) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments and financing lease liabilities. Excludes operating lease liabilities re lated to ASC 842 of $1,642,849,000 as of December 31, 2025.
Net Debt to Consolidated Enterprise Value Exhibit 7
(in thousands, except share price)
December 31, 2025 December 31, 2024
Common shares outstanding 696,507 635,289
Period end share price $ 185.61 $ 126.03
Common equity market capitalization $ 129,278,664 $ 80,065,473
Total debt $ 19,737,446 $ 15,608,294
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (5,209,539) (3,711,457)
Net debt 14,527,907 11,896,837
Noncontrolling interests (1)
1,073,441 616,378
Consolidated enterprise value $ 144,880,012 $ 92,578,688
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value 10.0 % 12.9 %
(1) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet.
Page 13 of 13

## Exhibit EX-99.2

EX-99.2
3
a4q25supplement992.htm
EX-99.2
Table of Contents
Overview
1
Portfolio
2
Investment
6
Financial
10
Glossary
15
Supplemental Reporting Measures
16
Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors
20
Overview
(dollars and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Portfolio Composition (1)
Beds/Unit Mix
Average Age Properties Total Wellness Housing Independent Living Assisted Living Memory Care Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care
Seniors Housing Operating 16 1,887 188,643 32,293 50,293 79,053 26,482 522
Seniors Housing Triple-net 23 430 29,097 — 2,190 19,103 7,525 279
Outpatient Medical 19 202 12,904,468 (2) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 34 381 45,912 — 45 997 — 44,870
Total 20 2,900
NOI Performance
Same Store (3)
In-Place Portfolio (4)
Properties 4Q24 NOI 4Q25 NOI % Change Properties Annualized
In-Place NOI % of Total
Seniors Housing Operating 875 $ 389,654 $ 469,183 20.4 % 1,649 $ 2,855,092 68.6 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 247 73,252 75,170 2.6 % 425 612,740 14.7 %
Outpatient Medical 104 23,223 23,778 2.4 % 112 116,192 2.8 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 184 73,310 75,210 2.6 % 348 576,064 13.9 %
Total 1,410 $ 559,439 $ 643,341 15.0 % 2,534 $ 4,160,088 100.0 %
Portfolio Performance Facility Revenue Mix
Stable Portfolio (5)
Occupancy
EBITDAR Coverage (6)
EBITDARM Coverage (6)
Private Pay Medicaid Medicare
Other Government (7)
Seniors Housing Operating 88.9 % n/a n/a 93.2 % 0.7 % 0.2 % 5.9 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net 85.3 % 1.19 1.40 87.9 % 2.4 % 0.2 % 9.5 %
Outpatient Medical 95.5 % n/a n/a 100.0 % — — —
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 86.9 % 1.53 1.91 24.2 % 48.7 % 27.1 % — %
Total 1.35 1.64 88.6 % 3.9 % 2.0 % 5.4 %
Notes:
(1) Includes land parcels and properties under development.
(2) Indicates the total square footage of Outpatient Medical properties.
(3) See pages 17 and 18 for reconciliation.
(4) Excludes land parcels, loans, developments and investments held for sale. See page 17 for reconciliation.
(5) Data as of December 31, 2025 for Seniors Housing Operating and Outpatient Medical and September 30, 2025 for the remaining asset types.
(6) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics.
(7) Represents various federal and local reimbursement programs in the United Kingdom and Canada.
1
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
In-Place NOI Diversification (1)
By Partner: Total Properties Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient
Medical Long-Term/ Post-Acute Care Total % of Total
Barchester 261 $ 217,296 $ 265,944 $ — $ — $ 483,240 11.6 %
Cogir Management Corporation 182 338,244 — — — 338,244 8.1 %
Care UK 168 245,768 — — — 245,768 5.9 %
Sunrise Senior Living 85 230,936 — — — 230,936 5.6 %
Avir Health Group 130 — — — 210,100 210,100 5.1 %
Oakmont Management Group 69 178,696 — — — 178,696 4.3 %
Avery Healthcare 95 99,104 77,352 — — 176,456 4.2 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 109 167,564 — — — 167,564 4.0 %
HC One Ltd 215 131,512 — — — 131,512 3.2 %
Sagora Senior Living 73 116,264 — — — 116,264 2.8 %
Remaining 1,147 1,129,708 269,444 116,192 365,964 1,881,308 45.2 %
Total 2,534 $ 2,855,092 $ 612,740 $ 116,192 $ 576,064 $ 4,160,088 100.0 %
By Country:
United States 1,611 $ 1,883,928 $ 233,268 $ 116,192 $ 569,464 $ 2,802,852 67.4 %
United Kingdom 786 717,748 376,264 — — 1,094,012 26.3 %
Canada 137 253,416 3,208 — 6,600 263,224 6.3 %
Total 2,534 $ 2,855,092 $ 612,740 $ 116,192 $ 576,064 $ 4,160,088 100.0 %
By MSA:
Greater London 143 $ 182,044 $ 81,816 $ — $ — $ 263,860 6.3 %
Los Angeles 52 127,100 21,328 564 2,640 151,632 3.6 %
New York / New Jersey 70 97,988 20,196 12,088 16,128 146,400 3.5 %
Dallas 80 97,044 936 2,160 30,568 130,708 3.1 %
Houston 54 26,936 — 73,340 19,992 120,268 2.9 %
Montréal 26 84,604 — — — 84,604 2.0 %
Washington D.C. 32 62,740 6,288 — 13,408 82,436 2.0 %
Boston 26 68,548 11,888 184 — 80,620 1.9 %
San Francisco 23 57,004 11,164 — 2,492 70,660 1.7 %
Chicago 34 54,312 7,192 — — 61,504 1.5 %
Philadelphia 36 31,464 5,232 376 13,628 50,700 1.2 %
Tampa 31 14,256 2,448 928 26,952 44,584 1.1 %
Seattle 28 40,940 1,268 244 1,964 44,416 1.1 %
Raleigh 11 11,156 31,352 — — 42,508 1.0 %
Charlotte 23 20,332 10,328 10,548 — 41,208 1.0 %
San Antonio 19 24,564 920 488 15,208 41,180 1.0 %
San Diego 14 29,984 7,532 — 3,212 40,728 1.0 %
Cleveland 24 33,352 2,460 — 3,912 39,724 1.0 %
Pittsburgh 21 21,700 5,416 2,452 5,812 35,380 0.9 %
Minneapolis 21 34,148 — 548 — 34,696 0.8 %
Remaining 1,766 1,734,876 384,976 12,272 420,148 2,552,272 61.4 %
Total 2,534 $ 2,855,092 $ 612,740 $ 116,192 $ 576,064 $ 4,160,088 100.0 %
Notes:
(1) Represents current quarter annualized In-Place NOI. See page 17 for reconciliation.
2
Portfolio
(dollars, units and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands)
Seniors Housing Operating
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
4Q24 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25
Properties 1,085 1,113 1,171 1,199 1,659
Units 118,818 124,742 129,758 131,792 160,218
Total occupancy 84.8 % 85.1 % 85.6 % 86.9 % 87.4 %
Total revenues $ 1,808,025 $ 1,901,227 $ 2,007,567 $ 2,109,690 $ 2,607,559
Operating expenses 1,366,423 1,410,579 1,464,457 1,530,131 1,902,889
NOI $ 441,602 $ 490,648 $ 543,110 $ 579,559 $ 704,670
NOI margin 24.4 % 25.8 % 27.1 % 27.5 % 27.0 %
Recurring cap-ex $ 75,822 $ 68,359 $ 63,937 $ 78,803 $ 116,560
Other cap-ex $ 188,301 $ 135,045 $ 118,646 $ 131,668 $ 166,439
Same Store Performance (2)
4Q24 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25
Properties 875 875 875 875 875
Units 98,967 98,950 98,944 98,943 98,944
Occupancy 85.5 % 86.2 % 87.3 % 88.6 % 89.5 %
Same store revenues $ 1,429,732 $ 1,471,911 $ 1,504,244 $ 1,542,552 $ 1,566,559
Compensation 611,804 615,699 623,755 636,087 648,384
Utilities 62,769 71,222 59,911 69,320 65,421
Food 60,347 57,375 59,493 60,826 63,139
Repairs and maintenance 38,830 39,088 39,604 42,720 41,957
Property taxes 44,402 49,249 49,473 49,751 46,780
All other 221,926 218,172 224,307 225,227 231,695
Same store operating expenses 1,040,078 1,050,805 1,056,543 1,083,931 1,097,376
Same store NOI $ 389,654 $ 421,106 $ 447,701 $ 458,621 $ 469,183
Same store NOI margin % 27.3 % 28.6 % 29.8 % 29.7 % 30.0 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 20.4 %
Year over year revenue growth rate 9.6 %
Partners (3)
Properties Pro Rata Units
Welltower Ownership % (4)
Top Markets 4Q25 NOI % of Total
Cogir Management Corporation 182 27,604 94.0 % Greater London $ 51,536 7.3 %
Care UK 168 10,751 100.0 % Southern California 47,805 6.8 %
Sunrise Senior Living 85 7,751 91.5 % Northern California 34,649 4.9 %
Barchester 111 6,811 100.0 % Dallas 24,631 3.5 %
Oakmont Management Group 69 6,911 100.0 % New York / New Jersey 24,367 3.5 %
StoryPoint Senior Living 109 11,079 94.7 % Montreal 21,269 3.0 %
HC One Ltd 215 12,336 100.0 % Washington D.C. 18,279 2.6 %
Sagora Senior Living 73 8,476 100.0 % Boston 17,049 2.4 %
Legend Senior Living 59 5,060 87.7 % Chicago 13,604 1.9 %
Avery Healthcare 45 3,386 94.8 % Seattle 10,591 1.5 %
Belmont Village 21 2,803 95.0 % Top markets 41,244 5.8 %
Discovery Senior Living 75 6,011 57.7 % All other 663,426 94.2 %
Quality Senior Living 38 4,222 87.4 % Total $ 704,670 100.0 %
Axis Residential 29 4,639 100.0 %
Remaining 370 41,951
Total 1,649 159,791
Notes:
(1) Properties, units, occupancy and cap-ex exclude land parcels, properties under development/redevelopment, leased properties and nonoperational properties.
(2) See pages 17 and 18 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents partner concentration based on annualized In-Place NOI for the quarter ended December 31, 2025. Property count and pro rata units represent the In-Place portfolio.
(4) Welltower ownership percentage weighted based on In-Place NOI. See page 17 for reconciliation.
3
Portfolio
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Payment Coverage Stratification
EBITDARM Coverage (1)
EBITDAR Coverage (1)
% of In-Place NOI Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases Seniors Housing Triple-net Long-Term/ Post- Acute Care Total Weighted Average Maturity Number of Leases
<.85x 0.2 % 0.1 % 0.3 % 8 3 0.2 % 0.1 % 0.3 % 8 3
.85x-.95x — % — % — % — — — % — % — % — —
.95x-1.05x — % — % — % — — 0.4 % 3.4 % 3.8 % 12 3
1.05x-1.15x — % — % — % — — 0.6 % — % 0.6 % 8 3
1.15x-1.25x 0.3 % — % 0.3 % 5 1 4.6 % 0.3 % 4.9 % 8 6
1.25x-1.35x 1.0 % 1.3 % 2.3 % 9 3 1.1 % 0.6 % 1.7 % 6 2
>1.35 5.7 % 4.8 % 10.5 % 10 22 0.3 % 1.8 % 2.1 % 14 12
Total 7.2 % 6.2 % 13.4 % 10 29 7.2 % 6.2 % 13.4 % 10 29
Revenue and Lease Maturity (2)
Rental Income
Year Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term / Post-Acute Care Interest
Income Total
Revenues % of Total
2026 $ 3,244 $ 2,581 $ 9,282 $ 75,751 $ 90,858 6.0 %
2027 — 1,898 1,287 66,989 70,174 4.6 %
2028 — 3,816 6,669 2,522 13,007 0.9 %
2029 1,115 5,317 — 4,297 10,729 0.7 %
2030 12,525 6,363 30,222 183 49,293 3.2 %
2031 6,752 4,991 4,630 216 16,589 1.1 %
2032 97,170 3,159 54,172 356 154,857 10.2 %
2033 63,400 959 1,070 — 65,429 4.3 %
2034 433 4,127 — 274 4,834 0.3 %
2035 36,868 4,212 15,007 840 56,927 3.7 %
Thereafter 381,817 80,999 450,735 75,408 988,959 65.0 %
$ 603,324 $ 118,422 $ 573,074 $ 226,836 $ 1,521,656 100.0 %
Weighted Avg Maturity Years 15 12 16 8 14
Notes:
(1) Represents trailing twelve month coverage metrics as of September 30, 2025 for stable portfolio only. Agreements included represent 47% of total Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care In-Place NOI. See page 17 for a reconciliation. Agreements with mixed units use the predominant type based on investment balance.
(2) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments classified as held for sale, as well as Seniors Housing Triple-net and Long-Term / Post-Acute Care leases accounted for on a cash basis where substantially all contractual rental income during the most recent period was not collected. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non-cash income. Interest income represents the annualized contractual rate of interest for loans, net of collectability reserves, if applicable.
4
Portfolio
(dollars, square feet and occupancy at Welltower pro rata ownership; dollars in thousands except per square feet)
Outpatient Medical
Total Portfolio Performance (1)
4Q24 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25
Properties 429 433 434 437 194
Square feet 21,430,682 21,775,061 21,914,499 22,073,485 8,801,545
Occupancy 94.3 % 94.5 % 94.4 % 94.2 % 95.5 %
Total revenues $ 205,361 $ 214,693 $ 215,718 $ 219,238 $ 148,862
Operating expenses 61,392 66,804 65,197 65,851 45,000
NOI $ 143,969 $ 147,889 $ 150,521 $ 153,387 $ 103,862
NOI margin 70.1 % 68.9 % 69.8 % 70.0 % 69.8 %
Revenues per square foot $ 38.33 $ 39.44 $ 39.37 $ 39.73 $ 67.65
NOI per square foot $ 26.87 $ 27.17 $ 27.47 $ 27.80 $ 47.20
Recurring cap-ex $ 11,029 $ 6,191 $ 13,221 $ 19,324 $ 4,298
Other cap-ex $ 16,756 $ 9,742 $ 9,297 $ 14,051 $ 1,963
Same Store Performance (2)
4Q24 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25
Properties 104 104 104 104 104
Occupancy 97.3 % 97.2 % 97.5 % 97.6 % 97.5 %
Same store revenues $ 27,460 $ 27,443 $ 27,732 $ 26,071 $ 27,459
Same store operating expenses 4,237 4,186 4,104 2,489 3,681
Same store NOI $ 23,223 $ 23,257 $ 23,628 $ 23,582 $ 23,778
NOI margin 84.6 % 84.7 % 85.2 % 90.5 % 86.6 %
Year over year NOI growth rate 2.4 %
Portfolio Diversification
by Tenant (3)
Rental Income % of Total Quality Indicators
Kelsey-Seybold $ 73,348 61.9 %
Health system affiliated properties as % of NOI (3)
99.6 %
UnitedHealth 15,356 13.0 %
Health system affiliated tenants as % of rental income (3)
91.6 %
Atrium Health 10,456 8.8 %
Investment grade tenants as % of rental income (3)
91.0 %
Normal Regional Health 1,333 1.1 %
Retention (trailing twelve months) (3)
85.8 %
Community Health Systems 1,243 1.0 %
Average remaining lease term (years) (3)
11.8
Remaining portfolio 16,686 14.2 %
Average building size (square feet) (3)
70,997
Total $ 118,422 100.0 % Average age (years) 19
Expirations (3)
2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 Thereafter
Occupied square feet 103,031 73,139 143,266 198,607 272,024 3,232,891
% of occupied square feet 2.6 % 1.8 % 3.6 % 4.9 % 6.8 % 80.3 %
Notes:
(1) Properties, square feet, occupancy and cap-ex exclude land parcels, properties under development/redevelopment and nonoperational properties . Per square foot amounts are annualized.
(2) Includes 104 same store properties representing 3,434,064 square feet. See pages 17 and 18 for reconciliation.
(3) Excludes all land parcels, developments and investments held for sale. Rental income represents annualized cash base rent for effective lease agreements. The amounts are derived from the current contracted monthly cash base rent, net of collectability reserves, if applicable. Rental income does not include common area maintenance charges, the amortization of above/below market lease intangibles or other non-cash income. Retention includes month-to-month tenants retained.
5
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Relationship Investment History
Detail of Acquisitions/JVs (1)
2021 2022 2023 2024 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 21-25 Total
Count 35 27 52 54 26 16 18 30 276
Total $ 4,101,534 $ 2,785,739 $ 4,222,706 $ 5,287,140 $ 2,612,747 $ 978,896 $ 1,351,102 $ 12,623,382 $ 35,314,348
Low 5,000 6,485 2,950 970 13,358 4,825 13,200 7,725 970
Median 45,157 66,074 65,134 39,863 54,794 50,994 38,440 72,835 51,850
High 1,576,642 389,149 644,443 936,814 990,908 296,300 397,335 6,644,176 6,644,176
Investment Timing
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (2)
Yield
Construction Conversions (3)
Year 1 Yield Dispositions and Loan Repayments Yield
October $ 12,191,703 7.4 % $ 44,353 0.3 % $ 3,230,100 8.4 %
November 666,949 7.5 % 11,111 (5.8) % 2,343,845 6.0 %
December 951,139 7.2 % 117,655 0.2 % 1,881,397 6.4 %
Total $ 13,809,791 7.4 % $ 173,119 (0.2) % $ 7,455,342 7.1 %
Notes:
(1) Includes non-yielding asset acquisitions.
(2) Includes advances for non-real estate loans. Excludes land acquisitions and advances for development loans.
(3) Includes expansion conversions and excludes in substance real estate investments.
6
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership, except per bed / unit / square foot)
Gross Investment Activity
Fourth Quarter 2025
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 553 35,582 units $ 239,760 $ 8,531,155
Seniors Housing Triple-net 156 9,962 units 324,775 3,235,410
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 44 4,584 beds 188,647 864,756
Loan funding 1,178,470
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
753 13,809,791 7.4 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 47 5,018 units 100,066
Outpatient Medical — — sf 9,648
Total development projects 47 109,714
Redevelopment and expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 1 28 units 2,221
Total development funding 48 111,935 9.8 %
Total gross investments 13,921,726 7.8 %
Dispositions and Loan Repayments (4)
Seniors Housing Operating 5 224 units 60,462 13,543
Seniors Housing Triple-net 15 564 units 123,404 69,600
Outpatient Medical 244 13,586,796 sf 381 5,175,887
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 39 4,971 beds 168,220 836,222
Loan repayments 1,360,090
Total dispositions and loan repayments (5)
303 7,455,342 7.1 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ 6,466,384
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP, for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions. Pro rata am ounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans. Includes acquisition of leaseholds and additional ownership interest in properties, which are both excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yie ld represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan repayments and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales. Includes disposition of partial ownership interest in properties which are excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics. Other property dispositions include the sale of land parcels and nonoperational properties.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
7
Investment
(dollars in thousands, except per bed / unit / square foot, at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Gross Investment Activity
Year-To-Date 2025
Properties Beds / Units / Square Feet Investment Per
Bed / Unit /
SqFt Pro Rata
Amount Yield
Acquisitions and Loan Funding (1)
Seniors Housing Operating 681 53,327 units $ 207,215 $ 11,050,144
Seniors Housing Triple-net 173 11,103 units 320,892 3,562,864
Outpatient Medical 1 46,835 sf 484 22,691
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 160 18,934 beds 155,190 2,938,367
Loan funding 1,702,500
Total acquisitions and loan funding (2)
1,015 19,276,566 7.4 %
Development Funding (3)
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 58 7,432 units 358,422
Outpatient Medical 7 439,205 sf 94,926
Total development projects 65 453,348
Redevelopment and expansion projects:
Seniors Housing Operating 2 427 units 8,385
Outpatient Medical — — sf 1,305
Total redevelopment and expansion projects 2 9,690
Total development funding 67 463,038 8.1 %
Total gross investments 19,739,604 7.4 %
Dispositions and Loan Repayments (4)
Seniors Housing Operating 24 3,884 units 55,984 217,443
Seniors Housing Triple-net 20 1,371 units 181,692 249,100
Outpatient Medical 245 13,642,382 sf 381 5,197,950
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 43 5,532 beds 154,404 854,162
Other property dispositions 15,400
Loan repayments 1,689,555
Total dispositions and loan repayments (5)
332 8,223,610 7.3 %
Net investments (dispositions) $ 11,515,994
Notes:
(1) Acquisitions represent purchase price excluding accounting adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP, for all consolidated and unconsolidated property acquisitions. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable. Loan advances represent cash funded for real estate and non-real estate loans receivable, excluding development loans. Includes acquisition of leaseholds and additional ownership interest in properties, which are both excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics.
(2) Acquisition yields represents annualized contractual or projected cash rent/NOI to be generated divided by investment amount, excluding land parcels. Loan funding yield represents annualized contractual interest divided by investment amount.
(3) Amounts represent cash funded for all developments/expansions including construction in progress, loans and in substance real estate. Yield represents projected annualized cash rent/NOI to be generated upon conversion/stabilization divided by commitment amount.
(4) Amounts represent proceeds received for loan repayments and consolidated and unconsolidated property sales. Includes disposition of partial ownership interest in properties which are excluded from property, unit and per unit metrics. Other property dispositions include the sale of land parcels and nonoperational properties.
(5) Yield represents annualized cash rent/interest/NOI that was being generated pre-disposition divided by proceeds. Pro rata amounts include joint venture real estate loans receivable.
8
Investment
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Development Funding Projections (1)
Projected Future Funding
Projects Beds / Units / Square Feet
Stable Yields (2)
2026 Funding Funding Thereafter Total Unfunded Commitments Committed Balances
Seniors Housing Operating 42 4,083 10.4 % $ 370,374 $ 195,763 $ 566,137 $ 1,343,206
Development Project Conversion Estimates (1)
Quarterly Conversions Annual Conversions
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
Amount
Year 1 Yields (2)
Stable Yields (2)
1Q25 actual $ 302,507 3.5 % 6.7 % 2025 actual $ 1,207,115 1.3 % 7.1 %
2Q25 actual 459,917 1.2 % 6.9 % 2026 estimate 611,972 (0.8) % 9.6 %
3Q25 actual 260,558 (0.2) % 7.6 % 2027 estimate 486,984 (1.6) % 11.2 %
4Q25 actual 184,133 (0.2) % 7.3 % Thereafter estimate 244,250 1.7 % 10.9 %
Total $ 1,207,115 1.3 % 7.1 % Total $ 2,550,321 0.3 % 8.8 %
Unstabilized Properties
9/30/2025 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (1)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions 12/31/2025 Properties Beds / Units
Seniors Housing Operating 64 (10) 5 9 68 9,928
Seniors Housing Triple-net 8 (1) — — 7 499
Total 72 (11) 5 9 75 10,427
Occupancy 9/30/2025 Properties Stabilizations
Construction Conversions (3)
Acquisitions/ Dispositions Progressions 12/31/2025 Properties
0% - 50% 31 (1) 4 9 (11) 32
50% - 70% 11 (2) 1 — 10 20
70% + 30 (8) — — 1 23
Total 72 (11) 5 9 — 75
Occupancy 12/31/2025 Properties Months In Operation Revenues
% of Total Revenues (4)
Gross Investment Balance % of Total Gross Investment
0% - 50% 32 8 $ 118,513 0.9 % $ 1,378,619 2.1 %
50% - 70% 20 20 219,790 1.7 % 917,406 1.4 %
70% + 23 42 302,329 2.3 % 1,165,876 1.8 %
Total 75 22 $ 640,632 4.9 % $ 3,461,901 5.3 %
(1) Includes development projects (construction in progress, development loans and in substance real estate) and excludes expansion projects. Actual conversions excl ude $206,183,000 of in substance real estate investment projects placed in service. Projects expected to be delivered in phases over multiple quarters are reflected in the last quarter.
(2) Actual yields may vary.
(3) Includes expansion and development loan conversions.
(4) Percent of total revenues based on current quarter annualized pro rata total revenues on page 11 .
9
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Components of NAV
Stabilized NOI Pro rata beds/units/square feet
Seniors Housing Operating (1)
$ 2,855,092 159,791 units
Seniors Housing Triple-net 612,740 28,895 units
Outpatient Medical 116,192 4,150,913 square feet
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 576,064 41,339 beds
Total In-Place NOI (2)
4,160,088
Incremental stabilized NOI (3)
159,235
Total stabilized NOI $ 4,319,323
Obligations
Lines of credit and commercial paper (4)
$ —
Senior unsecured notes (4)
16,451,346
Secured debt (4)
3,564,334
Financing lease liabilities 544,901
Total debt 20,560,581
Add (Subtract):
Other liabilities (assets), net (5)
729,212
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (5,243,581)
Net obligations $ 16,046,212
Other Assets
Land parcels (6)
360,321
Effective Interest Rate (9)
Real estate loans receivable (7)
3,174,141 9.0%
Non-real estate loans receivable (8)
200,469 10.3%
Joint venture real estate loans receivables (10)
227,755 5.7%
Property dispositions (11)
2,734,954
Development properties: (12)
Current balance 781,364
Unfunded commitments 578,736
Committed balances $ 1,360,100
Projected yield 10.4 %
Projected NOI $ 141,450
Common shares outstanding (13)
716,258
Notes:
(1) Includes $10,266,000 attributable to our proportional share of income (loss) from unconsolidated management company investments.
(2) See page 17 for reconciliation.
(3) Represents incremental NOI from Seniors Housing Operating unstabilized properties.
(4) Represents principal amounts due and does not include unamortized premiums/discounts, deferred loan expenses or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet. Includes $870,255,000 of foreign secured debt and $378,710,000 of foreign failed sale-leaseback financing obligations.
(5) Includes liabilities / (assets) that impact cash or NOI and excludes non-real estate loans and non-cash items such straight-line rent receivable, unearned revenues, intangible assets and above/below market lease intangibles.
(6) Includes land parcels and predevelopment projects.
(7) Represents $3,192,028,000 of real estate loans, excluding development loans and including certain in substance real estate developments and held to maturity debt securities, net of $17,887,000 of credit allowances.
(8) Represents $207,202,000 of non-real estate loans, net of $6,733,000 of credit allowances.
(9) Average cash-pay interest rates are 7.8%, 2.2% and 5.7% fo r real estate, non-real estate loans and joint venture real estate loans, respectively. Rates exclude non-accrual/interest-free loans.
(10) Represents our partners' share of Welltower loans made to select joint ventures secured by the joint venture owned properties.
(11) Represents proceeds from expected property dispositions in the next twelve months.
(12) Includes expansion projects. Includes partial conversions to date.
(13) Includes December 31, 2025 common shares, OP Units and DownREIT Units outstanding and the dilutive impact of exchangeable senior unsecured notes.
10
Financial
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Net Operating Income (1)
4Q24 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25
Revenues:
Seniors Housing Operating
Resident fees and services $ 1,805,306 $ 1,897,810 $ 2,003,039 $ 2,100,724 $ 2,588,078
Other income 2,719 3,417 4,528 8,966 19,481
Total revenues 1,808,025 1,901,227 2,007,567 2,109,690 2,607,559
Seniors Housing Triple-net
Rental income 58,918 103,399 104,360 99,423 167,485
Interest income 8,167 2,111 — — —
Other income 38 32 346 91 537
Total revenues 67,123 105,542 104,706 99,514 168,022
Outpatient Medical
Rental income 203,247 212,554 213,552 217,188 147,701
Other income 2,114 2,139 2,166 2,050 1,161
Total revenues 205,361 214,693 215,718 219,238 148,862
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Rental income 122,471 145,439 165,214 184,261 211,841
Other income 21 199 14 194 5
Total revenues 122,492 145,638 165,228 184,455 211,846
Corporate
Interest income 66,261 63,572 65,256 70,477 56,158
Other income 32,195 34,179 30,512 52,439 31,513
Total revenues 98,456 97,751 95,768 122,916 87,671
Total
Resident fees and services 1,805,306 1,897,810 2,003,039 2,100,724 2,588,078
Rental income 384,636 461,392 483,126 500,872 527,027
Interest income 74,428 65,683 65,256 70,477 56,158
Other income 37,087 39,966 37,566 63,740 52,697
Total revenues 2,301,457 2,464,851 2,588,987 2,735,813 3,223,960
Property operating expenses:
Seniors Housing Operating 1,366,423 1,410,579 1,464,457 1,530,131 1,902,889
Seniors Housing Triple-net 5,834 5,190 4,817 4,496 4,490
Outpatient Medical 61,392 66,804 65,197 65,851 45,000
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 4,063 3,495 3,705 3,609 2,974
Corporate 6,385 4,054 4,740 6,025 6,261
Total property operating expenses 1,444,097 1,490,122 1,542,916 1,610,112 1,961,614
Net operating income:
Seniors Housing Operating 441,602 490,648 543,110 579,559 704,670
Seniors Housing Triple-net 61,289 100,352 99,889 95,018 163,532
Outpatient Medical 143,969 147,889 150,521 153,387 103,862
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care 118,429 142,143 161,523 180,846 208,872
Corporate 92,071 93,697 91,028 116,891 81,410
Net operating income $ 857,360 $ 974,729 $ 1,046,071 $ 1,125,701 $ 1,262,346
Note:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 16 . Includes amounts from investments sold or held for sale. NOI related to DownREITs included at 100%.
11
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Leverage and EBITDA Reconciliations (1)
Twelve Months Ended Three Months Ended
December 31, 2025 December 31, 2025
Net income (loss) $ 961,837 $ 117,767
Interest expense 651,955 203,784
Income tax expense (benefit) (7,116) (4,985)
Depreciation and amortization 2,084,868 594,151
EBITDA 3,691,544 910,717
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 14,297 (4,442)
Stock-based compensation 1,555,858 1,507,748
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 9,245 3,089
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (1,449,043) (1,378,391)
Impairment of assets 121,283 45,924
Provision for loan losses, net (9,416) (7,384)
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 22,407 (5,656)
Other expenses 201,201 125,844
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 11,367 3,115
Other impairment (2)
604 —
Total adjustments 477,803 289,847
Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,169,347 $ 1,200,564
Interest Coverage Ratios
Interest expense $ 651,955 $ 203,784
Capitalized interest 33,799 7,476
Non-cash interest expense (51,629) (14,546)
Total interest $ 634,125 $ 196,714
EBITDA $ 3,691,544 $ 910,717
Interest coverage ratio 5.82 x 4.63 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,169,347 $ 1,200,564
Adjusted Interest coverage ratio 6.57 x 6.10 x
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios
Total interest $ 634,125 $ 196,714
Secured debt principal amortization 64,408 16,698
Total fixed charges $ 698,533 $ 213,412
EBITDA $ 3,691,544 $ 910,717
Fixed charge coverage ratio 5.28 x 4.27 x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,169,347 $ 1,200,564
Adjusted Fixed charge coverage ratio 5.97 x 5.63 x
Net Debt to EBITDA Ratios
Total debt (3)
$ 19,737,446
Less: cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (5,209,539)
Net debt $ 14,527,907
EBITDA Annualized $ 3,642,868
Net debt to EBITDA ratio 3.99 x
Adjusted EBITDA Annualized $ 4,802,256
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio 3.03 x
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 16 .
(2) Represents the write-off of straight-line rent receivable and unamortized lease incentive balances related to leases placed on cash recognition.
(3) Includes unamortized premiums/discounts, other fair value adjustments, financing lease liabilities of $540,144,000 and failed sale-leaseback financing obligations of $378,710,000. Excludes operating lease liabilities of $1,642,849,000 related to ASC 842.
12
Financial
(in thousands except share price)
Leverage and Current Capitalization (1)
% of Total
Book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — — %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
19,737,446 34.18 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (5,209,539) (9.02) %
Net debt to consolidated book capitalization $ 14,527,907 25.16 %
Total equity and noncontrolling interests (4)
43,202,939 74.84 %
Consolidated book capitalization $ 57,730,846 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
537,643
Total book capitalization $ 58,268,489
Undepreciated book capitalization
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — — %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
19,737,446 28.99 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (5,209,539) (7.65) %
Net debt to consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 14,527,907 21.34 %
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 10,350,621 15.20 %
Total equity and noncontrolling interests (4)
43,202,939 63.46 %
Consolidated undepreciated book capitalization $ 68,081,467 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
537,643
Total undepreciated book capitalization $ 68,619,110
Enterprise value
Lines of credit and commercial paper (2)
$ — — %
Long-term debt obligations (2)(3)
19,737,446 13.63 %
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (5,209,539) (3.60) %
Net debt to consolidated enterprise value $ 14,527,907 10.03 %
Common shares outstanding 696,507
Period end share price 185.61
Common equity market capitalization $ 129,278,664 89.23 %
Noncontrolling interests (4)
1,073,441 0.74 %
Consolidated enterprise value $ 144,880,012 100.00 %
Joint venture debt, net (5)
537,643
Total enterprise value $ 145,417,655
Secured debt as % of total assets
Secured debt (2)
$ 2,813,780 3.62 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 77,653,668
Total debt as % of gross asset value
Total debt (2)(3)
$ 19,737,446 25.42 %
Gross asset value (6)
$ 77,653,668
Unsecured debt as % of unencumbered assets
Unsecured debt (2)
$ 16,383,522 23.05 %
Unencumbered gross assets (7)
$ 71,085,327
Notes:
(1) Please see discussion of Supplemental Reporting Measures on page 16 .
(2) Amounts include unamortized premiums/discounts and other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(3) Includes financing lease liabilities of $540,144,000 and failed sale-leaseback financing obligations of $378,710,000 and excludes operating lease liabilities of $1,642,849,000 related to ASC 842.
(4) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our balance sheet.
(5) Net of Welltower's share of unconsolidated debt and minority partners' share of Welltower consolidated debt.
(6) Gross asset value equals total assets plus accumulated depreciation as reflected on the balance sheet.
(7) Unencumbered gross assets equal gross asset value for consolidated properties that are not financed with secured debt.
13
Financial
(dollars in thousands)
Debt Maturities and Scheduled Principal Amortization (1)
Year
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3)
Consolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (4)
% of Total
Wtd. Avg. Interest Rate (5)
2026 $ — $ 2,703,561 $ 246,296 $ (2,479) $ 30,570 $ 2,977,948 15.17 % 4.22 %
2027 — 1,901,060 355,635 (2,365) 133,514 2,387,844 12.16 % 3.87 %
2028 — 2,539,475 191,638 (334) 32,101 2,762,880 14.07 % 3.84 %
2029 — 2,159,899 420,896 (75,814) 22,628 2,527,609 12.87 % 3.43 %
2030 — 1,750,000 158,629 (332) 1,443 1,909,740 9.73 % 3.86 %
2031 — 1,350,000 59,561 (349) 371,780 1,780,992 9.07 % 3.48 %
2032 — 1,050,000 71,215 (360) 49,738 1,170,593 5.96 % 3.49 %
2033 — — 419,640 (36,872) 658 383,426 1.95 % 4.82 %
2034 — 672,250 207,139 (8,193) 688 871,884 4.44 % 4.41 %
2035 — 1,250,000 42,724 (561) 22,325 1,314,488 6.69 % 5.06 %
Thereafter — 1,150,000 399,707 (143) — 1,549,564 7.89 % 5.02 %
Totals $ — $ 16,526,245 $ 2,573,080 $ (127,802) $ 665,445 $ 19,636,968 100.00 %
Weighted Avg. Interest Rate (5)
— % 3.95 % 4.06 % 4.48 % 5.34 % 4.01 %
Weighted Avg. Maturity Years — 4.8 6.8 5.0 4.5 5.0
% Floating Rate Debt (5)
— % 23.15 % 9.26 % 58.61 % 0.05 % 20.32 %
Debt by Local Currency (1)
Lines of Credit and Commercial Paper (2)
Senior Unsecured Notes (3)
Consolidated Secured Debt Noncontrolling Interests' Share of Consolidated Debt Share of Unconsolidated Secured Debt
Combined Debt (4)
Investment Hedges (6)
United States $ — $ 12,709,899 $ 1,728,066 $ (112,189) $ 624,591 $ 14,950,367 $ —
United Kingdom — 1,411,725 — — — 1,411,725 11,872,886
Canada — 2,404,621 845,014 (15,613) 40,854 3,274,876 6,220,269
Totals $ — $ 16,526,245 $ 2,573,080 $ (127,802) $ (127,802) $ 665,445 $ 19,636,968 $ 18,093,155
Notes:
(1) Represents principal amounts due excluding unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(2) Our unsecured commercial paper program and our unsecured revolving credit facility had a zero balance as of December 31, 2025. The unsecured revolving credit facility is comprised of a $2,000,000,000 tranche that matures on July 24, 2029 and a $3,000,000,000 tranche that matures on July 24, 2028. The $3,000,000,000 tranche may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. Commercial paper borrowings are backstopped by the unsecured revolving credit facility.
(3) Senior Unsecured Notes include the following:
• 2026 includes CAD $2,747,615,000 of unsecured term loans (approximately $2,003,561,000 USD at December 31, 2025) that mature on October 9, 2026, and bear interest at adjusted CORRA + 0.30%.
• 2027 includes a $1,000,000,000 unsecured term loan and a CAD $250,000,000 unsecured term loan (approximately $182,300,000 USD at December 31, 2025). The loans mature on July 19, 2026 . The interest rates on the loans are adjusted SOFR + 0.78% for USD and adjusted CORRA + 0.78% for CAD. Both term loans may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option.
• 2027 also includes CAD $300,000,000 of 2.95% senior unsecured notes (approximately $218,760,000 USD at December 31, 2025) that matures on January 15, 2027.
• 2028 includes $1,035,000,000 of 2.75% exchangeable senior unsecured notes that mature on May 15, 2028 unless earlier exchanged, purchased or redeemed.
• 2028 also includes £550,000,000 of 4.80% senior unsecured notes (approximately $739,475,000 USD at December 31, 2025). The notes mature on November 20, 2028.
• 2029 includes $1,035,000,000 of 3.125% exchangeable senior unsecured notes that mature on July 15, 2029 unless earlier exchanged, purchased or redeemed.
• 2034 includes £500,000,000 of 4.50% senior unsecured notes (approximately $672,250,000 USD at December 31, 2025). The notes mature on December 1, 2034.
(4) Excludes operating lease liabilities of $1,642,849,000, finance lease liabilities of $540,144,000, and failed sale-leaseback financing obligations of $378,710,000 related to ASC 842.
(5) Based on variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2025. The interest rate on the unsecured revolving credit facility is adjusted SOFR + 0.705%. Commercial paper, senior notes and secured debt average interest rate represents the face value note rate. Includes the impact of notional swaps and caps to convert fixed rate debt to SOFR-based floating rate debt, and SOFR-based floating rate debt and CORRA-based floating rate debt to fixed rate debt.
(6) Represents notional value of foreign currency derivative contracts at end of period spot FX rates. The fair market value of the gains (losses) of these contracts is currently USD $(415,895,000), as represented in other assets (liabilities) on the balance sheet. We supplement our local currency debt with foreign currency derivative contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our international investments. Currently, our foreign currency derivatives are comprised of cross-currency swaps.
14
Glossary
Age: Current year, less the year built, adjusted for major renovations. Average age is weighted by pro rata NOI.
Cap-ex, Tenant Improvements, Leasing Commissions: Represents amounts incurred for: 1) recurring and non-recurring capital expenditures required to maintain and re-tenant our properties; 2) second generation tenant improvements; and 3) leasing commissions paid to third party leasing agents to secure new tenants. Excludes sustainability investments.
Construction Conversion: Represents completed construction projects that were placed into service and began generating NOI.
EBITDAR: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDAR and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDAR Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDAR to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDAR coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
EBITDARM: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate EBITDARM and has not independently verified the information.
EBITDARM Coverage: Represents the ratio of EBITDARM to contractual rent for leases or interest and principal payments for loans. EBITDARM coverage is a measure of a property’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows for the operator/borrower to pay rent and meet other obligations, assuming that management fees are not paid. The coverage shown excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
Health System - Affiliated: Outpatient medical properties are considered affiliated with a health system if one or more of the following conditions are met: 1) the land parcel is contained within the physical boundaries of a hospital campus; 2) the land parcel is located adjacent to the campus; 3) the building is physically connected to the hospital regardless of the land ownership structure; 4) a ground lease is maintained with a health system entity; 5) a master lease is maintained with a health system entity; 6) significant square footage is leased to a health system entity; 7) the property includes an ambulatory surgery center with a hospital partnership interest; or 8) a significant square footage is leased to a physician group that is either employed, directly or indirectly by a health system, or has a significant clinical and financial affiliation with the health system.
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care: Includes all skilled nursing, rehabilitation and long-term/post-acute care facilities where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement and are subject to triple-net operating leases. Most of these facilities focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.
MSA: For the United States and Canada, we use the Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Census Metropolitan Areas as defined by Statistics Canada, respectively. For the United Kingdom, we generally use the Metro Region as defined by EuroStat with Greater London defined as a 55-mile radius around the city’s center.
Occupancy: Outpatient Medical occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied, including month-to-month leases, as of the date reported. Occupancy for all other property types represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the most recent quarter of available data and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful. The company uses unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and has not independently verified the information. Occupancy metrics are reflected at our pro rata share.
Outpatient Medical: Outpatient medical buildings include properties offering ambulatory medical services such as prima ry and secondary care, outpatient surgery, diagnostic procedures and rehabilitation. These properties are typically affiliated with a health system and may be located on a hospital campus. They are specifically designed and constructed for use by healthcare professionals to provide services to patients. They also include medical office buildings that typically contain sole and group physician practices and may provide laboratory and other specialty services.
Seniors Housing Operating (SHO): Includes independent, assisted living and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. generally structured to take advantage of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, as well as Wellness Housing properties.
Seniors Housing Triple-net (SH-NNN): Includes independent, assisted living and dementia care properties in the U.S. and Canada and all care homes in the U.K. subject to triple-net operating leases.
Square Feet: Net rentable square feet calculated utilizing Building Owners and Managers Association measurement standards.
Stable: Generally, a triple-net rental property is considered stable (versus unstabilized or under development) when it has achieved EBITDAR coverage of 1.00x or greater for three consecutive months or, if targeted performance has not been achieved, 12 months following the budgeted stabilization date. Triple-net properties for which income is recognized on a cash basis and for which substantially all contractual rent during the period has not been collected are excluded from the stable portfolio. A Seniors Housing Operating facility is considered stable upon the earliest of 90% occupancy, NOI at or above the underwritten target or 12 months past the underwritten stabilization date. Excludes assets held for sale and assets disposed of during the current quarter.
Unstabilized: An acquisition that does not meet the stable criteria upon closing or a construction property that has opened but not yet reached stabilization.
15
Supplemental Reporting Measures
We believe that revenues and net income, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR, SS ExpPOR, NOI, In-Place NOI ("IPNOI") and Same Store NOI ("SSNOI") to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Excluding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, these supplemental measures are disclosed on our pro rata ownership basis. Pro rata amounts are derived by reducing consolidated amounts for minority partners’ noncontrolling ownership interests and adding our minority ownership share of unconsolidated amounts. We do not control unconsolidated investments. While we consider pro rata disclosures useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to managers, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and are unallocable to the properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. IPNOI represents cash NOI excluding interest income, other income and non-IPNOI and adjusted for timing of current quarter portfolio changes such as acquisitions, development conversions, segment transitions and dispositions. Properties classified as held for sale and leased properties are excluded from IPNOI. SSNOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in the same store amounts five full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service. Land parcels, loans and leased properties, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the period, are excluded from the same store amounts. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the redevelopment. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from the same store amounts until five full quarters post completion of the operator transition or segment transition. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from same store amounts until five full quarters after the properties are placed back into service. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent property ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and UK properties using a consistent exchange rate. Normalizers include adjustments that in management’s opinion are appropriate in considering SSNOI, a supplemental, non-GAAP performance measure. None of these adjustments, which may increase or decrease SSNOI, are reflected in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Significant normalizers (defined as any that individually exceed 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type) are separately disclosed and explained. We believe NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI, IPNOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our portfolio.
RevPOR represents the average revenues generated per occupied room per month and ExpPOR represents the average expenses per occupied room per month at our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These metrics are calculated as our pro rata share of total resident fees and services revenues or property operating expenses from the income statement, divided by average monthly occupied room days. SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR are used to evaluate the RevPOR and ExpPOR performance of our properties under a consistent population, which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio. They are based on the same pool of properties used for SSNOI and include any revenue and expense normalizations used for SSNOI. We use RevPOR, ExpPOR, SS RevPOR and SS ExpPOR to evaluate the revenue-generating capacity and profit potential of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio independent of fluctuating occupancy rates. They are also used in comparison against industry and competitor statistics, if known, to evaluate the quality of our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio.
We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The ratios are based on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income per income statement) before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/losses on disposition of properties and acquisitions of controlling interests, impairment of assets, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments deemed appropriate in management's opinion. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and secured debt principal amortization. Our leverage ratios include net debt to Adjusted EBITDA, book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and consolidated enterprise value. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Consolidated enterprise value represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Our management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management performance. None of the supplemental reporting measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental reporting measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. Multi-period amounts may not equal the sum of the individual quarterly amounts due to rounding.
16
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands)
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
NOI Reconciliation 4Q24 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25
Net income (loss) $ 123,753 $ 257,266 $ 304,618 $ 282,186 $ 117,767
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions and acquisitions of controlling interests, net (8,195) (51,777) (14,850) (4,025) (1,378,391)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities (6,429) (1,263) 7,392 12,610 (4,442)
Income tax expense (benefit) 114 (5,519) 1,053 2,335 (4,985)
Other expenses 34,405 14,060 16,598 44,699 125,844
Impairment of assets 23,647 52,402 19,876 3,081 45,924
Provision for loan losses, net (245) (2,007) (1,113) 1,088 (7,384)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net — 6,156 w — — 3,089
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (9,102) (3,210) (409) 31,682 (5,656)
General and administrative expenses 48,707 63,758 64,175 63,124 1,557,378
Depreciation and amortization 480,406 485,869 495,036 509,812 594,151
Interest expense 154,469 144,962 141,157 162,052 203,784
Consolidated net operating income 841,530 960,697 1,033,533 1,108,644 1,247,079
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments (1)
31,158 28,316 26,069 29,337 26,430
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(15,328) (14,284) (13,531) (12,280) (11,163)
Pro rata net operating income (NOI) (3)
$ 857,360 $ 974,729 $ 1,046,071 $ 1,125,701 $ 1,262,346
In-Place NOI Reconciliation
At Welltower pro rata ownership Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Corporate Total
Revenues $ 2,607,559 $ 168,022 $ 148,862 $ 211,846 $ 87,671 $ 3,223,960
Property operating expenses (1,902,889) (4,490) (45,000) (2,974) (6,261) (1,961,614)
NOI (3)
704,670 163,532 103,862 208,872 81,410 1,262,346
Adjust:
Interest income — — — — (56,158) (56,158)
Other income (2,419) (537) (19) (5) (25,705) (28,685)
Sold / held for sale 1,334 (1,000) (71,124) (25,877) — (96,667)
Nonoperational (4)
1,313 — 25 (323) — 1,015
Non In-Place NOI (5)
(25,423) (26,426) (3,696) (38,750) 453 (93,842)
Timing adjustments (6)
34,298 17,616 — 99 — 52,013
Total adjustments 9,103 (10,347) (74,814) (64,856) (81,410) (222,324)
In-Place NOI 713,773 153,185 29,048 144,016 — 1,040,022
Annualized In-Place NOI $ 2,855,092 $ 612,740 $ 116,192 $ 576,064 $ — $ 4,160,088
Same Store Property Reconciliation
Seniors Housing Operating Seniors Housing
Triple-net Outpatient Medical Long-Term
/Post-Acute Care Total
Total properties 1,887 430 202 381 2,900
Recent acquisitions and development conversions (7)
(586) (173) (8) (139) (906)
Under development (43) — — — (43)
Under redevelopment (8)
(2) — — (1) (3)
Current held for sale (13) (2) (82) (1) (98)
Land parcels, loans and leased properties (174) (4) (8) (30) (216)
Transitions (9)
(185) (4) — (24) (213)
Other (10)
(9) — — (2) (11)
Same store properties 875 247 104 184 1,410
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents Welltower's pro rata share of NOI. See page 11 for more information.
(4) Primarily includes development properties and land parcels.
(5) Primarily represents non-cash NOI and NOI associated with leased properties.
(6) Represents timing adjustments for current quarter acquisitions, construction conversions and segment or operator transitions.
(7) Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the same store pool five full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy.
(8) Redevelopment properties will enter the same store pool after five full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion.
(9) Transitioned properties will enter the same store pool after five full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new structure.
(10) Represents properties that are either closed or being closed.
17
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands at Welltower pro rata ownership)
Same Store NOI Reconciliation 4Q24 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 Y/o/Y
Seniors Housing Operating
NOI $ 441,602 $ 490,648 $ 543,110 $ 579,559 $ 704,670
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (1,963) (2,560) (1,443) (1,966) (2,010)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (51,765) (68,597) (93,456) (116,010) (229,879)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
(594) 1,369 (4,342) (5,627) (4,939)
Other normalizing adjustments (2)
2,374 246 3,832 2,665 1,341
SSNOI 389,654 421,106 447,701 458,621 469,183 20.4 %
Seniors Housing Triple-net
NOI 61,289 100,352 99,889 95,018 163,532
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (10,123) (9,328) (9,070) (7,881) (7,042)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties 22,316 (17,100) (15,499) (10,825) (79,462)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
1,119 1,546 278 (1,241) (1,636)
Normalizing adjustments for joint venture recapitalization (3)
(1,349) (1,400) (1,400) (467) —
Other normalizing adjustments (2)
— — — — (222)
SSNOI 73,252 74,070 74,198 74,604 75,170 2.6 %
Outpatient Medical
NOI 143,969 147,889 150,521 153,387 103,862
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (2,706) (2,594) (2,521) (2,326) (2,239)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (118,040) (122,027) (124,265) (127,459) (77,845)
Other normalizing adjustments (2)
— (11) (107) (20) —
SSNOI 23,223 23,257 23,628 23,582 23,778 2.4 %
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
NOI 118,429 142,143 161,523 180,846 208,872
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (10,670) (12,007) (12,451) (12,181) (11,680)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (35,971) (56,886) (75,831) (94,572) (122,038)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
552 150 91 83 56
Normalizing adjustments for service agreement termination (4)
970 970 970 647 —
SSNOI 73,310 74,370 74,302 74,823 75,210 2.6 %
Corporate
NOI 92,071 93,697 91,028 116,891 81,410
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (92,071) (93,697) (91,028) (116,891) (81,410)
SSNOI — — — — —
Total
NOI 857,360 974,729 1,046,071 1,125,701 1,262,346
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (25,462) (26,489) (25,485) (24,354) (22,971)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (275,531) (358,307) (400,079) (465,757) (590,634)
Currency and ownership adjustments (1)
1,077 3,065 (3,973) (6,785) (6,519)
Normalizing adjustments, net 1,995 (195) 3,295 2,825 1,119
SSNOI $ 559,439 $ 592,803 $ 619,829 $ 631,630 $ 643,341 15.0 %
Notes:
(1) Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.43 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.23.
(2) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than 0.50% of SSNOI growth per property type.
(3) Represents normalizing adjustment related to a joint venture recapitalization associated with one Seniors Housing Triple-net lease.
(4) Represents normalizing adjustment related to the termination of a service agreement related to one Long-Term/Post-Acute Care lease.
18
Supplemental Reporting Measures
(dollars in thousands, except RevPOR, SS RevPOR and SSNOI/unit)
SHO RevPOR Reconciliation United States United Kingdom Canada Total
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 1,575,369 $ 821,109 $ 178,899 $ 2,575,377
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to Welltower (1)
44,360 6,628 2,237 53,225
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(18,436) — (2,607) (21,043)
Pro rata SHO revenues (3)
1,601,293 827,737 178,529 2,607,559
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues (4,134) (945) (177) (5,256)
Revenues attributable to non in-place properties (4,619) (199,564) — (204,183)
SHO local revenues 1,592,540 627,228 178,352 2,398,120
Average occupied units/month 89,041 24,104 20,064 133,209
RevPOR/month in USD $ 5,913 $ 8,603 $ 2,939 $ 5,952
RevPOR/month in local currency (4)
£ 6,994 $ 4,199
Reconciliations of SHO SS RevPOR Growth, SSNOI Growth and SSNOI/Unit
United States United Kingdom Canada Total
4Q24 4Q25 4Q24 4Q25 4Q24 4Q25 4Q24 4Q25
SHO SS RevPOR Growth
Consolidated SHO revenues $ 1,308,177 $ 1,575,369 $ 324,638 $ 821,109 $ 131,514 $ 178,899 $ 1,764,329 $ 2,575,377
Unconsolidated SHO revenues attributable to WELL (1)
33,920 44,360 4,148 6,628 28,054 2,237 66,122 53,225
SHO revenues attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(20,079) (18,436) — — (2,347) (2,607) (22,426) (21,043)
SHO pro rata revenues (3)
1,322,018 1,601,293 328,786 827,737 157,221 178,529 1,808,025 2,607,559
Non-cash and non-RevPOR revenues on same store properties (2,292) (2,769) (14) (6) (208) (222) (2,514) (2,997)
Revenues attributable to non-same store properties (197,586) (362,976) (145,291) (619,462) (29,621) (37,765) (372,498) (1,020,203)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
5,875 751 (7,333) (15,706) (2,495) (3,403) (3,953) (18,358)
SHO SS RevPOR revenues (5)
$ 1,128,015 $ 1,236,299 $ 176,148 $ 192,563 $ 124,897 $ 137,139 $ 1,429,060 $ 1,566,001
Avg. occupied units/month (6)
63,608 66,733 6,332 6,577 14,680 15,223 84,620 88,533
SHO SS RevPOR (7)
$ 5,863 $ 6,125 $ 9,197 $ 9,680 $ 2,813 $ 2,978 $ 5,583 $ 5,848
SS RevPOR YOY growth 4.5 % 5.3 % 5.9 % 4.7 %
SHO SSNOI Growth
Consolidated SHO NOI $ 319,413 $ 465,091 $ 65,879 $ 169,281 $ 45,397 $ 63,561 $ 430,689 $ 697,933
Unconsolidated SHO NOI attributable to WELL (1)
11,658 17,581 865 1,485 10,759 1,026 23,282 20,092
SHO NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (2)
(11,308) (12,138) — — (1,061) (1,215) (12,369) (13,353)
SHO pro rata NOI (3)
319,763 470,534 66,744 170,766 55,095 63,372 441,602 704,672
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (1,839) (1,998) (124) (12) — — (1,963) (2,010)
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (20,453) (101,029) (20,575) (115,534) (10,737) (13,316) (51,765) (229,879)
Currency and ownership adjustments (4)
2,113 387 (1,841) (4,162) (866) (1,164) (594) (4,939)
Other normalizing adjustments (8)
3,197 1,183 — — (823) 158 2,374 1,341
SHO pro rata SSNOI (5)
$ 302,781 $ 369,077 $ 44,204 $ 51,058 $ 42,669 $ 49,050 $ 389,654 $ 469,185
SHO SSNOI growth 21.9 % 15.5 % 15.0 % 20.4 %
SHO SSNOI/Unit
Trailing four quarters' SSNOI (5)
$ 1,404,675 $ 198,219 $ 193,717 $ 1,796,611
Average units in service (9)
74,987 7,516 16,442 98,945
SSNOI/unit in USD $ 18,732 $ 26,373 $ 11,782 $ 18,158
SSNOI/unit in local currency (4)
£ 21,441 $ 16,831
Notes:
(1) Represents Welltower's interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the minority partner.
(2) Represents minority partners' interests in joint ventures where Welltower is the majority partner.
(3) Represents SHO revenues/NOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 11 for more information.
(4) Includes where appropriate adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.43 and to translate UK properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.23.
(5) Represents SS SHO RevPOR revenues/SSNOI at Welltower pro rata ownership. See page 18 for more information.
(6) Represents average occupied units for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
(7) Represents pro rata SS average revenues generated per oc cupied room per month.
(8) Represents aggregate normalizing adjustments which are individually less than .50% of SSNOI growth.
(9) Represents average units in service for SS properties related solely to referenced country on a pro rata basis.
19
Forward-Looking Statement and Risk Factors
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
This document contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words such as "may," "will," "intend," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "pro forma," "estimate" or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower's actual results to differ materially from Welltower's expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical developments, including economic downturns, elevated inflation and interest rates, political or social conflict, unrest or violence or similar events; the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the healthcare industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements, public perception of the healthcare industry and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the healthcare and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower's ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters, public health emergencies and extreme weather affecting Welltower's properties; Welltower's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower's ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower's properties; changes in rules or practices governing Welltower's financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates and changes to U.S. and global monetary, fiscal or trade policies; Welltower's approach to artificial intelligence; Welltower's ability to maintain its qualification as a REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower's reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Additional Information
The information in this supplemental information package should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our earnings press release d ated February 10, 2026 an d other information filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Supplemental Reporting Measures and reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are an integral part of the information presented herein.
You can access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act at www.welltower.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You can also review these SEC filings and other information by accessing the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. We routinely post important information on our website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading "Investors." Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls and filings with the SEC. The information on or connected to our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of, or incorporated into this supplemental information package.
About Welltower
Welltower Inc. (NYSE: WELL), an S&P 500 company, is positioned at the center of the silver economy, focusing on rental housing for aging seniors across the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Our portfolio of 2,500+ seniors and wellness housing communities are positioned at the intersection of housing and hospitality, creating vibrant communities for mature renters and older adults. We believe our real estate portfolio is unmatched, located in highly attractive micromarkets with stunning built environments. Yet, we are an unusual real estate organization as we view ourselves as an operating company in a real estate wrapper, driven by highly-aligned partnerships and an unconventional culture. Through our disciplined approach to capital allocation powered by our Data Science platform and superior operating results driven by the Welltower Business System - our end-to-end operating platform - we aspire to deliver long-term compounding of per share growth for our existing investors, our North Star. More information is available at www.welltower.com.
20
