---
doc_type: sec_filing
source: sec_edgar
ticker: RBRK
accession_number: 0001943896-26-000047
form_type: 10-Q
items:
- '2'
- '3'
filed_date: '2026-06-05'
filing_url: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1943896/000194389626000047/rbrk-20260430.htm
press_release_url: ''
tickers:
- RBRK
themes: []
ingestion_date: '2026-06-29'
extraction_source: v3 SEC filings pipeline (sec_filings.py); EDGAR; claude-extracted
  themes
---

# RBRK 10-Q — filed 2026-06-05

## Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis

Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2026, as filed with the SEC on March 19, 2026 (the “Annual Report”). Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading “Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading “Risk Factors” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to “we,” “us,” “our,” “our company,” and “Rubrik” refer to Rubrik, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our “common stock” include our Class A common stock and Class B common stock.
Overview
We are on a mission to secure and accelerate the world’s AI transformation.
Cyberattacks are inevitable. Prevention and detection are not enough. Realizing that cyberattacks ultimately target data, we created Zero Trust Data Security to deliver cyber resilience so that organizations can secure their data across the cloud and recover from cyberattacks. As enterprises embrace the forthcoming AI transformation, they are grappling with a threat landscape that is now amplified at an AI-scale. We believe that cyber resilience will result in AI resilience and that the future of cybersecurity is data security—if your data is secure, your business is resilient.
We built the Rubrik Security Cloud ( “ RSC ” ) suite with Zero Trust design principles to secure data across enterprise, cloud, SaaS, unstructured data, and identity providers. RSC delivers a cloud native SaaS platform that detects, analyzes, and remediates data security risks and unauthorized user activities. Our platform is architected to help organizations achieve cyber resilience, which encompasses cyber posture and cyber recovery. We enable organizations to confidently accelerate digital transformation and leverage the cloud to realize business agility.
We launched our first enterprise software product, Converged Data Management, in fiscal 2016, which combined data and metadata together into a single layer of software to offer Zero Trust data protection, and sold it as a perpetual license along with associated maintenance contracts. In fiscal 2019, we extended data protection to cloud native applications and rebranded Converged Data Management to Cloud Data Management (“CDM”). Data protection for cloud native applications are sold as a SaaS subscription offering. In addition, we began launching new SaaS subscription offerings, Anomaly Detection and Sensitive Data Monitoring. In fiscal 2020, we continued our business evolution to a subscription pricing model by offering CDM as a subscription term-based license with associated support. Included in this subscription term-based license was the right to next generation Rubrik-branded commodity servers (“Rubrik-branded Appliances”) at no cost for qualified customers (“Refresh Rights”). As of February 1, 2022, we stopped offering CDM as a perpetual license.
In fiscal 2023, to meet customer demands for data security and a single, unified cloud-based control plane, we launched RSC, a suite built on top of our comprehensive Zero Trust Data Security platform. RSC culminates our early vision of providing one point of control to secure data across enterprise, cloud, SaaS, unstructured data, and identity providers. RSC is primarily adopted by our customers as a cloud-native, fully managed SaaS solution. It is also available as an enterprise-ready, self-managed version (“RSC-Private”), for a few select customers that are subject to stringent data control policies. For U.S. public sector organizations, we also offer a specialized cloud-native fully managed SaaS solution called RSC-Government.
We began transitioning customers from our legacy CDM capabilities to RSC, which is offered on a subscription basis, in fiscal 2023. As part of this business transition, we began transitioning the sale of Rubrik-branded Appliances from us to our contract manufacturers and stopped offering the Refresh Rights as part of our subscription offerings. In lieu of offering Refresh Rights, we offered Subscription Credits to qualifying customers (which are customer options that are accounted for as material rights). We recognize ratable revenue upon utilization or upfront revenue upon expiration of Subscription Credits, and utilization of Subscription Credits also offsets Subscription ARR for the applicable period. Since the end of fiscal 2024, RSC has represented a majority of our total revenue.
We recognize revenue from the sales of our RSC suite (excluding RSC-Private) ratably over the term of the subscription. We recognize a portion of revenue from sales of RSC-Private upon delivery and the remainder ratably over the term of the subscription. The majority of sales of our subscriptions are for three-year terms with upfront payment, and renewals are typically for one-year terms.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
22
Table of Contents
New and existing customers have largely adopted RSC. We have largely migrated our existing customers from our legacy CDM capabilities to RSC. During this migration, certain existing customers consumed our platform and products through a mix of RSC and a transitional CDM license (“RCDM-T”), during which time we recognized a portion of the associated revenue from these customers upfront at the time we transferred control of the license to the customer, and we have largely completed this transition in fiscal 2026. In addition, we expect our subscription revenue to continue to benefit from customers exercising or forfeiting their Subscription Credits through fiscal 2027, although we expect the benefits to significantly decline sequentially.
In fiscal 2026, we launched RAC, our AI agent operations suite, to accelerate enterprise AI transformation without introducing added risk. RAC is designed to monitor and audit agentic actions, enforce real-time guardrails for agentic changes, fine-tune agents for accuracy and, finally, undo agent mistakes. Built on our unique architecture that understands data, identity and application contexts, RAC is designed to give customers security, accuracy, and efficiency as they transform their organizations into AI enterprises. As RAC only became commercially available in February of 2026, we expect the RSC suite to continue to be the majority of our revenue in fiscal 2027 and the main driver for ARR growth.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2027, we started offering the Resilience Guardian as a term-based subscription license program, which provides customers with dedicated resilience managers to design and implement a cyber resilience strategy that maps to business outcomes. This includes proactive security and health checks, detection and resolution of emerging issues, upgrade planning and assistance, and adoption excellence and value realization.
Factors Affecting Our Performance
Evolution of the Market and Adoption of Our Solutions
Our future success depends in part on the market adoption of our approach to Zero Trust Data Security. Many organizations have focused on preventing cyberattacks instead of protecting their data and having a plan to recover it in case of a cyberattack. We believe that the existing security ecosystem lacks a data security platform that will secure a customer’s data, wherever it lives, across enterprise, cloud, SaaS, unstructured data, and identity providers. RSC is our Zero Trust Data Security platform that addresses the growing demand from organizations of virtually any size, across a wide range of industries, to address data security and cyberattack risks. As the data security market continues to evolve, we expect to continuously innovate our platform and product functionality to keep us in a strong position to capture the large opportunity ahead.
New Customer Acquisition
Our business model relies on rapidly and efficiently engaging with new customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to innovate upon our product breadth and capabilities, our success in recruiting and scaling our sales and marketing organization, our ability to accelerate ramp time of our sales force, our ability to develop and maintain strong partnerships, the impact of marketing efforts to enhance our brand, and competitive dynamics in our target markets.
Retaining and Expanding Within Our Existing Customer Base
Our ability to retain customers and expand within existing customers is integral to our growth and future success. Our growing base of customers represents a significant opportunity for further expansion across our platform. Our customers typically start with securing data in one or more applications on our platform, and then expand by securing additional applications and increasing the amount of data secured. They further extend their use of our platform through adoption of additional security products. Several of our largest customers have deployed our platform to secure large amounts of their data across enterprise, cloud, SaaS, unstructured data, and identity providers. Our ability to expand and extend within our customer base depends on, and has been impacted by, a number of factors, including platform performance, our customers’ satisfaction with our platform, competitive offerings, pricing, overall changes in our customers’ spending levels, and the effectiveness of our efforts to help our customers realize the benefits of our platform.
Macroeconomic and Supply Chain Conditions
Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions and their impact on customer behavior. Macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations, tariffs or other trade restrictions, geopolitical issues, changes in government policy or spending, and other changes in economic conditions, may adversely affect the buying patterns of our customers and prospective customers. For example, in light of current macroeconomic conditions, such as higher cost-consciousness around information technology budgets, as well as constraints affecting the availability or pricing of compatible commodity servers needed to deploy our solutions, we have observed a lengthening of our sales cycles. Additionally, key components of the commodity servers that are compatible with our solutions have been, and continue to be, affected by global chip shortages and allocation constraints, in part due to elevated industry demand, which in certain cases have resulted in extended lead times and increased server prices. Such delays, constraints and increased costs may affect our customers’ purchasing decisions and
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
23
Table of Contents
deployment timelines, in some cases delaying customer purchases and in other cases resulting in customers pulling software purchases forward to lock in hardware prices. In response, we may in the future provide certain commercial accommodations, which could reduce our margins or adversely affect our revenue and operating results if such practices become widespread or prolonged. Due to our subscription-focused business model, any impact of the current macroeconomic environment and supply chain constraints on our business may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. As we continue to monitor the direct and indirect impacts of the current environment, the broader implications of macroeconomic conditions and supply chain constraints on our business, results of operations and financial condition, particularly in the long term, remain uncertain.
Key Business Metrics
We monitor the following key business metrics to help us evaluate our business.
Subscription ARR
Subscription ARR is calculated as the annualized value of our active subscriptions as of the measurement date, based on our customers’ total contract value, and assuming any contract that expires during the next 12 months is renewed on existing terms. Subscriptions include offerings for our RSC suite and related data security SaaS solutions, term-based licenses for our RSC-Private suite and related products, prior sales of CDM sold as a subscription term-based license with associated support and related SaaS products, and standalone sales of our SaaS subscription offerings like Anomaly Detection, Sensitive Data Monitoring and Resilience Guardian. We believe Subscription ARR illustrates our success in acquiring new subscription customers and maintaining and expanding our relationships with existing subscription customers.
The following table sets forth our Subscription ARR as of the dates presented:
April 30,
2026 2025
(in thousands, except percentages)
Subscription ARR $ 1,565,141 $ 1,181,269
% growth 32 % 38 %
Subscription ARR does not include any maintenance revenue associated with perpetual licenses, which we generally no longer offer. Of the 32% and 38% growth, approximately 0.4 percentage points and 2 percentage points of growth for the three months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, respectively, were a result of transitioning our existing maintenance customers to our subscription editions. Contributions to growth from these transitions were largely completed in fiscal 2026.
Cloud Annual Recurring Revenue, or Cloud ARR
Cloud ARR is calculated as the annualized value of our active cloud-based subscriptions as of the measurement date, based on our customers’ total contract value, and assuming any contract that expires during the next 12 months is renewed on existing terms. Our cloud-based subscriptions include RSC and RSC-Government (excluding RSC-Private). Cloud ARR also includes SaaS subscription offerings like Anomaly Detection and Sensitive Data Monitoring, which are sold standalone or with prior sales of term-based license offerings of CDM. We believe that Cloud ARR provides important information on new and existing customers purchasing new RSC subscription offerings and existing subscription term-based license customers renewing with RSC subscription offerings.
The following table sets forth our Cloud ARR as of the dates presented:
April 30,
2026 2025
(in thousands, except percentages)
Cloud ARR $ 1,393,920 $ 971,546
% growth
43 % 60 %
Average Subscription Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate
Our average subscription dollar-based net retention rate compares our Subscription ARR from the same set of subscription customers across comparable periods. We calculate our average subscription dollar-based net retention rate by first identifying subscription customers (the “Prior Period Subscription Customers”) that were subscription customers at the end of a particular quarter (the “Prior Period”) and calculate the Subscription ARR from the Prior Period Subscription Customers. We then calculate the Subscription ARR from these Prior Period Subscription Customers at the end of the same quarter of the subsequent year (the “Current Period”). This
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
24
Table of Contents
calculation captures upsells, contraction, and attrition since the Prior Period. We then divide total Current Period Subscription ARR by the total Prior Period Subscription ARR for Prior Period Subscription Customers. Our average subscription dollar-based net retention rate in a particular quarter is obtained by averaging the result from that particular quarter with the corresponding results from each of the prior three quarters. We believe that our average subscription dollar-based net retention rate provides useful information about the evolution of our existing customers as they expand through the increase of data from applications we already secure, new applications for us to secure, additional data security products, and conversion of our recurring revenue related to maintenance contracts into subscription revenue.
Our historical average subscription dollar-based net retention rate does not include any maintenance revenue associated with perpetual licenses, which we no longer offer. Like Subscription ARR, our historical average subscription dollar-based net retention rate benefits from the transition of our existing maintenance customers to our subscription editions.
The following table sets forth our average subscription dollar-based net retention rate as of the dates presented:
April 30,
2026 2025
Average subscription dollar-based net retention rate approximately 120% over 120%
Customers with $100,000 or More in Subscription ARR
We believe that customers with $100,000 or more in Subscription ARR is a helpful metric in measuring our ability to scale with our customers and the success of our ability to acquire large customers. Additionally, we believe that our ability to increase the number of customers with $100,000 or more in Subscription ARR is a useful indicator of our market penetration and demand for our platform.
The following table sets forth the number of customers with $100,000 or more in Subscription ARR as of the dates presented:
April 30,
2026 2025
Customers with $100,000 or more in Subscription ARR 2,946 2,381
% growth
24 % 28 %
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We believe that non-GAAP financial measures, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software. We believe that free cash flow is a helpful indicator of liquidity that provides information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated or used by our operations that, after the investments in property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software, can be used for strategic initiatives, including investing in our business and strengthening our financial position. The limitation of free cash flow is that it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and may fluctuate due to the timing of cash payments received from our customers and payments relative to expenses, prepayments of other spend, including hosting prepayments, and charitable donations. Additionally, free cash flow is not a substitute for cash provided by (used in) operating activities, and the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period.
Free cash flow was $73.6 million and $33.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, respectively. The improvement in free cash flow was primarily due to higher sales, including timing of renewals, improved operating leverage and optimizing our capital structure. This trend when combined with changes in new business growth, may result in free cash flow volatility across periods.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
25
Table of Contents
In the longer term, we view continued Subscription ARR growth, operating leverage, and the mix of annual versus upfront payment terms on our multi-year contracts as primary drivers of free cash flow. See the risk factor titled “We expect fluctuations in our financial results, making it difficult to project future results, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our results of operations, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline” in the section titled “Risk Factors.”
The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities for the periods presented:
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025
(in thousands)
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 81,689 $ 39,655
Less: Purchases of property and equipment (4,277) (2,850)
Less: Capitalized internal-use software (3,799) (3,465)
Free cash flow $ 73,613 $ 33,340
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (36,183) $ 34,165
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 17,215 $ 15,341
Subscription ARR Contribution Margin
We define Subscription ARR Contribution Margin as the Subscription ARR Contribution (as defined below) divided by Subscription ARR at the end of the period. We define Subscription ARR Contribution as Subscription ARR at the end of the period less: (i) our non-GAAP subscription cost of revenue and (ii) our non-GAAP operating expenses for the prior 12-month period ending on that date. In fiscal 2023, we began transitioning customers from our legacy CDM capabilities to our subscription-based RSC offerings. As a result of differing revenue recognition treatment between CDM and RSC, including the RCDM-T licenses offered to existing customers, and as qualified customers choose to exercise or forfeit their Subscription Credits, these business transitions cause fluctuations to our total revenue growth and limit the comparability of our revenue with past performance. As a result, we measure the performance of our business on the basis of Subscription ARR. We believe that Subscription ARR Contribution Margin is a helpful indicator of operating leverage during this business transition. One limitation of Subscription ARR Contribution Margin is that the factors that impact Subscription ARR will vary from those that impact subscription revenue and, as such, may not provide an accurate indication of our actual or future GAAP results. Additionally, the historical expenses in this calculation may not accurately reflect the costs associated with future commitments.
Subscription ARR Contribution Margin was 13% and 8% for the 12 months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, respectively. The increase in Subscription ARR Contribution Margin was primarily driven by the strong year-over-year Subscription ARR growth outpacing the year-over-year growth in non-GAAP subscription costs of sales and non-GAAP operating expenses. We believe that this increase in Subscription ARR Contribution Margin reflects increased operating leverage in our business.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
26
Table of Contents
The following table presents the calculation of Subscription ARR Contribution Margin for the periods presented as well as a reconciliation of (i) non-GAAP subscription cost of revenue to subscription cost of revenue and (ii) non-GAAP operating expenses to operating expenses:
Twelve Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025
(in thousands, except percentages)
Subscription cost of revenue $ 244,552 $ 193,223
Stock-based compensation expense (17,037) (18,289)
Stock-based compensation included in amortization of capitalized internal-use software (2,903) (607)
Amortization of acquired intangibles (9,330) (3,730)
Non-GAAP subscription cost of revenue $ 215,282 $ 170,597
Operating expenses $ 1,453,058 $ 1,249,744
Stock-based compensation expense (309,832) (334,156)
Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 1,143,226 $ 915,588
Subscription ARR $ 1,565,141 $ 1,181,269
Non-GAAP subscription cost of revenue (215,282) (170,597)
Non-GAAP operating expenses (1,143,226) (915,588)
Subscription ARR Contribution $ 206,633 $ 95,084
Subscription ARR Contribution Margin 13.2 % 8.0 %
Components of Results of Operations
Revenue
We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions and typically invoice our customers at the inception of the contract.
While we have largely completed both the sales of Rubrik-branded Appliances transitioning from us to our contract manufacturers in fiscal 2025 and the transition for new and existing customers to sales of RSC in fiscal 2026, we expect our subscription revenue to continue to benefit from customers exercising or forfeiting their Subscription Credits (which are customer options that are accounted for as material rights) through fiscal 2027, although we expect the benefits to significantly decline sequentially. These business transitions cause fluctuations to our total revenue growth and limit the comparability of our revenue with past performance. We primarily measure our business on the basis of Subscription ARR, as we believe it best reflects our actual growth and our growth prospects.
Certain prior period amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. For the three months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, the Company combined maintenance revenue and other revenue into “Other” on the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. The presentation of cost of revenue has been conformed to reflect the changes related to the presentation of revenues. Such reclassifications related to the presentation of revenue and cost of revenue did not impact total revenue, loss from operations or net loss.
Subscription Revenue
Our subscription revenue consists of SaaS subscriptions and subscription term-based licenses with related support services.
SaaS includes SaaS subscription offerings like Anomaly Detection and Sensitive Data Monitoring sold standalone or with prior sales of term-based license offerings of CDM prior to the launch of the RSC suite as well as sales of RSC. RSC is offered as a fully-hosted subscription or a hybrid cloud subscription. RSC is a fully-hosted subscription in the case of protection of cloud, SaaS, unstructured data, and identity providers. When RSC is securing enterprise applications, it is a hybrid cloud subscription which includes software hosted from the cloud (as a service) and an on-premise license for securing enterprise applications. The hybrid cloud subscription is accounted for as a single performance obligation because the software hosted from the cloud (as a service) and the on-premise software licenses are not separately identifiable and serve together to fulfill our promise to the customer, which is to provide a single, unified data security solution. Our RSC subscription capabilities are primarily sold as editions which bundle multiple products and include the Foundation Edition, Business Edition, and Enterprise Edition. Subscription revenue related to SaaS is recognized ratably over the subscription period.
Subscription term-based licenses provide our customer with a right to use the software for a fixed term commencing upon delivery of the license to our customer. Support services are bundled with each subscription term-based license for the term of the subscription.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
27
Table of Contents
Subscription revenue related to subscription term-based licenses includes upfront revenue recognized at the later of the start date of the subscription term-based license and the date when the subscription term-based license is delivered. The remainder of the revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period for support services, commencing with the date the service is made available to customers.
Our subscription revenue will fluctuate when qualified customers choose to exercise or forfeit their customer options that are accounted for as material rights. We have experienced revenue growth benefits from the non-recurring revenue associated with material rights; however, we expect these benefits to decline over the course of fiscal 2027. The combination of both of these factors may continue to limit and cause fluctuations in our subscription revenue growth during fiscal 2027, depending in part on the timing of our existing customers’ transition to RSC and exercises or forfeitures of Subscription Credits (which are customer options that are accounted for as material rights).
Other Revenue
Other revenue includes fees earned from sales of professional services, software updates on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone and integrated web-based support, Rubrik-branded Appliance maintenance relating to our perpetual licenses, and Rubrik-branded Appliances. Revenue for Rubrik-branded Appliances is recognized when shipped to the customer. When we sell our software license with our Rubrik-branded Appliances, revenue for both the Rubrik-branded Appliances and software licenses are recognized at the same time. Revenue related to professional services is typically recognized as the services are performed. We expect other revenue to be largely driven by sales of professional services in the future and as a percentage of total revenue to decrease over time.
Cost of Revenue
Cost of revenue primarily includes employee compensation and related expenses associated with customer support, certain hosting costs, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, amortization of finite-lived intangible assets and cost of Rubrik-branded Appliances.
Cost of Subscription Revenue
Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes employee compensation and related expenses associated with customer support for our subscription offerings, certain hosting costs, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, and amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. We expect our cost of subscription revenue to increase as our subscription revenue increases.
Cost of Other Revenue
Cost of other revenue includes the cost of professional services, employee compensation and related expenses associated with customer support from our perpetual licenses, and the cost of Rubrik-branded Appliances. We expect cost of other revenue as a percentage of total cost of revenue to decrease as the transition of sales of Rubrik-branded Appliances from us to our contract manufacturers was largely completed in fiscal 2025. Over the long-term, we expect the cost of other revenue to be largely driven by sales of professional services.
Gross Profit and Margin
Gross profit is revenue less cost of revenue.
Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin has been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including the mix of subscription term-based licenses, SaaS subscriptions, and other products, when qualified customers choose to exercise or forfeit their customer options that are accounted for as material rights, the timing and extent of our investments in our global customer support organization, certain hosting costs, the amortization of capitalized internal-use software, and stock-based compensation expense. Over time, we expect our gross margin to fluctuate due to the factors described above.
Subscription Gross Margin
We expect our subscription gross margin to fluctuate through fiscal 2027. This is due to the revenue being recognized ratably over the subscription term rather than a portion being recognized upfront from subscription term-based licenses and associated increases in hosting costs for our SaaS solutions. We expect our subscription gross margin to fluctuate as customers adopt data security SaaS solutions on the RSC suite.
Other Gross Margin
We expect other gross margin to decrease as a percentage of total revenue, which we expect will result in a decrease in cost of other revenue. We expect sales of Rubrik-branded Appliances to decrease as the transition of sales of Rubrik-branded Appliances from us to
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
28
Table of Contents
our contract manufacturers was largely completed in fiscal 2025. Over the long-term, we expect other gross margin to be largely driven by sales of professional services.
Operating Expenses
Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses. We also incur other non-personnel costs such as colocation and certain hosting costs, office space costs, fees for third-party professional services, and costs associated with software and subscription services. We expect our operating expenses will continue to increase as our business grows. We also expect our operating expenses, exclusive of stock-based compensation, as a percentage of revenue to generally decrease over the long term.
Research and Development
Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, net of capitalized amounts, and colocation and certain hosting costs. To capture share in the ever-growing data security market, we expect to continuously innovate our platform and product functionality and will continue to invest in research and development. We expect our research and development expenses will continue to increase as our business grows. We also expect our research and development expenses, exclusive of stock-based compensation, as a percentage of revenue to generally decrease over the long term.
Sales and Marketing
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses including sales commissions, marketing programs, and travel-related costs. To capture share in the ever-growing data security market, we expect to continuously expand our sales force, increase our marketing efforts, and expand into new markets. We expect our sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase as our business grows. We also expect our sales and marketing expenses, exclusive of stock-based compensation, as a percentage of revenue to generally decrease over the long term.
General and Administrative
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions, including finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and fees for third-party professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses will continue to increase as our business grows. We also expect our general and administrative expenses, exclusive of stock-based compensation, as a percentage of revenue to generally decrease over the long term.
Other Non-Operating Income (Expense)
Other non-operating income (expense) consists primarily of interest income, interest expense, loss on debt extinguishment, and foreign exchange gains and losses.
Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business, as well as state income taxes in the United States. We have recorded U.S. federal and state net deferred tax assets for which we provide a full valuation allowance, which includes net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
29
Table of Contents
Results of Operations
The following tables summarize our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods.
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025
(in thousands)
Revenue
Subscription $ 374,153 $ 265,661
Other 12,915 12,820
Total revenue 387,068 278,481
Cost of revenue
Subscription (1)
66,723 51,912
Other (1)
8,562 8,571
Total cost of revenue 75,285 60,483
Gross profit 311,783 217,998
Operating expenses
Research and development (1)
114,341 81,815
Sales and marketing (1)
193,098 169,993
General and administrative (1)
56,978 59,281
Total operating expenses 364,417 311,089
Loss from operations (52,634) (93,091)
Interest income 15,898 7,696
Interest expense (1,070) (9,813)
Other income (expense), net 590 (5,622)
Loss before income taxes (37,216) (100,830)
Income tax expense 4,637 1,274
Net loss $ (41,853) $ (102,104)
Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.21) $ (0.53)
Weighted-average shares used in computing net loss per share, basic and diluted 203,668 191,625
(1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows:
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025
(in thousands)
Cost of revenue
Subscription $ 4,631 $ 3,968
Other 634 857
Research and development 33,026 19,812
Sales and marketing 16,331 24,144
General and administrative 18,746 24,759
Total stock-based compensation expense $ 73,368 $ 73,540
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
30
Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated:
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025
Revenue
Subscription 97 % 95 %
Other 3 5
Total revenue 100 100
Cost of revenue
Subscription 17 19
Other 2 3
Total cost of revenue 19 22
Gross profit 81 78
Operating expenses
Research and development 30 29
Sales and marketing 50 61
General and administrative 15 21
Total operating expenses 95 111
Loss from operations (14) (33)
Interest income 4 3
Interest expense — (4)
Other income (expense), net — (2)
Loss before income taxes (10) (36)
Income tax expense 1 1
Net loss (11) % (37) %
Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2026 and 2025
Revenue
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
Revenue
Subscription $ 374,153 $ 265,661 $ 108,492 41 %
Other 12,915 12,820 95 1 %
Total revenue $ 387,068 $ 278,481 $ 108,587 39 %
Growth in subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2026 was driven by growth in Subscription ARR and some benefits as customers exercised or forfeited their Subscription Credits. For the three months ended April 30, 2026, non-recurring revenue related to material rights associated with Subscription Credits accounted for approximatel y $8.5 million of subscription revenue. We expect our subscription revenue to continue to benefit from customers exercising or forfeiting their Subscription Credits through fiscal 2027, although we expect the benefits to significantly decline sequentially.
Our Subscription ARR grew from $1.18 billion as of April 30, 2025 to $1.57 billion as of April 30, 2026, representing a 32% increase. Of the increase in Subscription ARR, approximately 0.4 percentage points are a result of transitioning our existing maintenance customers to our subscription editions. A further indication of our ability to expand revenue from existing customers is through our average subscription dollar-based net retention rate which was approximately 120% as of April 30, 2026. We had 2,946 customers with $100,000 or more in Subscription ARR as of April 30, 2026, increasing from 2,381 as of April 30, 2025.
Other revenue, which consists primarily of sales of perpetual licenses of our legacy CDM product, Rubrik-branded Appliances and professional services, was relatively flat for the three months ended April 30, 2026. Other revenue represented 3% and 5% of total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2026 and 2025, respectively. The transition of existing maintenance customers adopting RSC subscription offerings was largely completed in fiscal 2026. We expect our other revenue as a percentage of total revenue to continue to decrease.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
31
Table of Contents
Cost of Revenue
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
Cost of revenue
Subscription $ 66,723 $ 51,912 $ 14,811 29 %
Other 8,562 8,571 (9) — %
Total cost of revenue $ 75,285 $ 60,483 $ 14,802 24 %
Cost of subscription revenue increased for the three months ended April 30, 2026 primarily driven by an increase of $8.5 million in hosting costs due to the launch and adoption of more SaaS offerings by our customers, an increase of $2.7 million from growth in our customer support organization, an increase of $1.8 million of amortization of acquired technology and an increase of $1.5 million of amortization of capitalized internal-use software.
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
Gross profit
Subscription $ 307,430 $ 213,749 $ 93,681 44 %
Other 4,353 4,249 104 2 %
Total gross profit $ 311,783 $ 217,998 $ 93,785 43 %
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025
Gross margin
Subscription 82 % 80 %
Other 34 % 33 %
Total gross margin 81 % 78 %
Subscription gross margin increased for the three months ended April 30, 2026, primarily driven by economies of scale as our subscription revenue base expanded faster than our associated cost of revenue.
Operating Expenses
Research and Development
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
Research and development $ 114,341 $ 81,815 $ 32,526 40 %
Research and development expenses increased for the three months ended April 30, 2026 primarily due to an increase of $19.9 million in employee related costs driven by an increase in headcount, of which $13.2 million is an increase in stock-based compensation expense. In addition, hosting and software expenses increased by $9.8 million.
Sales and Marketing
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
Sales and marketing $ 193,098 $ 169,993 $ 23,105 14 %
Sales and marketing expenses increased for the three months ended April 30, 2026 primarily due to an increase of $11.5 million in marketing expense as a result of advertising costs, marketing events and related costs to promote and expand our market presence, and an increase of $7.0 million in employee related costs driven by an increase in headcount.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
32
Table of Contents
General and Administrative
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
General and administrative $ 56,978 $ 59,281 $ (2,303) (4) %
General and administrative expenses decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2026 primarily driven by a decrease of $6.0 million in stock-based compensation expense mainly related to performance-based equity awards. The decrease is offset by an increase of $1.5 million in employee related costs driven by an increase in headcount and an increase of $1.3 million in third-party consulting and professional services expenses.
Other Non-Operating Income (Expense)
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
Interest income $ 15,898 $ 7,696 $ 8,202 107 %
Interest expense (1,070) (9,813) 8,743 (89) %
Other income (expense), net 590 (5,622) 6,212 (110) %
Interest income increased for the three months ended April 30, 2026 due to higher cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances.
Interest expense decreased for the three months ended April 30, 2026 as our 2023 Amended Credit Facility with Goldman Sachs BDC, Inc. and the other lenders party thereto was fully repaid in June 2025.
Other income (expense), net includes foreign exchange gains and losses and fluctuations are driven by the strengthening or weakening of the US dollar against foreign currencies on our foreign-denominated intercompany payables.
Income Tax Expense
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025 $ Change % Change
(dollars in thousands)
Income tax expense $ 4,637 $ 1,274 $ 3,363 264 %
Our income tax expense increased for the three months ended April 30, 2026 due to increased profits in our foreign subsidiaries.
Our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly and could be adversely affected to the extent that earnings are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory tax rates. In addition, tax authorities may challenge our transfer pricing policies, resulting in a higher effective tax rate.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of April 30, 2026, we had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $1.75 billion. Our cash equivalents and investments primarily consist of money market funds, certificate of deposit, U.S. treasuries, commercial paper, corporate bonds, and U.S. government agencies securities. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $3.23 billion as of April 30, 2026. We expect to continue to incur operating losses, and our operating cash flows may fluctuate between positive and negative amounts for the foreseeable future. As a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business.
Our primary sources of cash are payments received from our customers as well as net proceeds from the issuance of our Convertible Notes. Our primary uses of cash include personnel-related expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, sales and marketing expenses, overhead costs, and strategic acquisitions we may make from time to time.
Our billings grow with new business growth. The majority of our billings are driven by invoicing our customers for multi-year commitments. However, this may evolve as customers have opted to, and may continue to opt to, pay us on an annual, monthly or consumption basis based on products purchased due to the growth in our SaaS and Cloud product offerings. In addition, our billings are subject to seasonality, with billings in the fourth quarter being substantially higher than in the other three quarters.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
33
Table of Contents
We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months.
Our longer-term future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our subscription growth rate, subscription renewal activity, including the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced products, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash and short-term investment balances, and potential future debt or equity financings. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of deploying available cash. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be adversely affected.
Convertible Senior Notes
In June 2025, we completed a private offering to qualified institutional buyers of $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2030. The Convertible Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company and will mature on June 15, 2030, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. Net proceeds from the issuance of the Convertible Notes were approximately $1.13 billion. The outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes was $1.15 billion as of April 30, 2026.
In connection with the Convertible Notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions with certain affiliates of certain initial purchasers of the Convertible Notes and other financial institutions (the “Capped Calls”) for a cost of $88.6 million. The Capped Calls are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution to our Class A common stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Convertible Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap based on the cap price initially equal to $175.10 per share. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the Convertible Notes to pay the $88.6 million cost of the Capped Calls and repaid the outstanding balance of $327.9 million under our prior credit facility. We expect to use the remaining net proceeds from the Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions or strategic investments in complementary businesses or technologies, working capital, operating expenses and capital expenditures.
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented:
Three Months Ended April 30,
2026 2025
(in thousands)
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 81,689 $ 39,655
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (36,183) $ 34,165
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 17,215 $ 15,341
Operating Activities
Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. We typically invoice our customers in advance for multi-year contracts. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets in deferred revenue. We generally experience seasonality based on when we enter into agreements with our customers. Given the seasonality in our business, the operating cash flow benefit from increased collections from our customers generally occurs in the subsequent quarter after billing. We expect seasonality, timing of billings, billings terms, and collections from our customers to have a material impact on our cash flow from operating activities from period to period. Our primary uses of cash in operating activities are for employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, fees for third-party professional services, colocation and hosting costs, marketing programs, and prepayments of other spend, including hosting prepayments. Our cash flow from operating activities may fluctuate due to the timing of cash payments received from our customers and payments relative to expenses.
For the three months ended April 30, 2026, net cash provided by operating activities of $81.7 million resulted primarily from a net loss of $41.9 million, partially offset by $73.4 million of stock-based compensation, $29.3 million of amortization of deferred commissions, $12.1 million for depreciation and amortization, and $6.4 million of net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $57.4 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $43.1 million increase in deferred revenue from increased billings, and a $13.8 million decrease in prepaid expenses and
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
34
Table of Contents
other assets. The cash inflow was partially offset by a $80.4 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, and a $26.6 million increase in deferred commissions.
For the three months ended April 30, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities of $39.7 million resulted primarily from a net loss of $102.1 million, partially offset by $73.5 million of stock-based compensation, $24.8 million of amortization of deferred commissions, $8.1 million for depreciation and amortization, and $35.1 million of net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $89.7 million increase in deferred revenue from increased billings and a $12.0 million decrease in accounts receivable. The cash inflow was partially offset by a $36.8 million decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, a $21.4 million increase in deferred commissions, and a $7.8 million increase in prepaid expense and other assets.
Investing Activities
For the three months ended April 30, 2026, net cash used in investing activities of $36.2 million resulted from $292.0 million in purchases of investments, $3.8 million in capitalized internal-use software, and $4.3 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $263.9 million in proceeds from maturities of investments.
For the three months ended April 30, 2025, net cash provided by investing activities of $34.2 million resulted from $162.6 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of investments, partially offset by $120.2 million in purchases of investments, $3.5 million in capitalized internal-use software, and $2.8 million in purchases of property and equipment.
Financing Activities
For the three months ended April 30, 2026, net cash provided by financing activities of $17.2 million resulted primarily from $16.6 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan and $0.6 million from the exercise of stock options.
For the three months ended April 30, 2025, net cash provided by financing activities of $15.3 million resulted from $13.5 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan and $1.8 million from the exercise of stock options.
Material Cash Requirements
Our material cash requirements primarily consist of operating lease commitments for our offices and data centers, non-cancelable purchase commitments related to third-party cloud hosting services, and long-term debt. Except as already disclosed in Note 7, Debt and Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, there has been no other material change in our material cash requirements other than in the ordinary course of business since our fiscal year ended January 31, 2026. See our Annual Report for additional information regarding our contractual obligations.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Refer to Part II, Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2026. There have been no material changes to our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.
Rubrik, Inc. Q1 2027 Form 10-Q
35
Table of Contents

## Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We have operations in the United States and internationally, and we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of our business.
Interest Rate Risk
As of April 30, 2026, we had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $1.75 billion and restricted cash of $16.6 million. Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held for working capital purposes. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. Our investments are exposed to market risk due to fluctuations in interest rates, which may affect our interest income. A hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would not have a material effect on the fair market value of our portfolio.
In June 2025, we issued $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers. The fair value of the Convertible Notes is subject to market risk and other factors due to the conversion feature. The fair value of the Convertible Notes generally increases as our Class A common stock price increases, and generally decreases as our Class A common stock price declines. The market value changes affect the fair value of the Convertible Notes, but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligation.
Foreign Currency Risk
Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and the functional currency for all of our foreign subsidiaries are the respective local currencies. All of our sales contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. A portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside of the United States, denominated in foreign currencies, and subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations and cash flows are, therefore, subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and may be adversely affected in the future due to changes in foreign exchange rates. To date, we have not entered into any hedging arrangements with respect to foreign currency risk or other derivative financial instruments, although we may choose to do so in the future. We do not believe a 10% increase or decrease in the relative value of the U.S. dollar would have a material impact on our results of operations.
